There's a huge difference between what's
going on in Main Street and what's
happening on Wall Street.
>> The general health of the economy, it's
broken down.
>> We're expecting a prolonged period of
elevated inflation.
>> We have a eye on the inflation data, but
the one data point is not going to, I
think, derail a path.
>> I don't think inflation is getting away
from the Fed, which is why I think they
should be focusing more on the growth
side of the economy. This is Bloomberg
Surveillance with Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa
Abramowitz, and An Marie Hordern.
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning for our
audience worldwide. Bloomberg
surveillance starts right now coming
into Wednesday at all-time highs as
Secretary Besson is pushing for the
Federal Reserve to recalibrate. The
White House Fed pick Steven Marin is
facing a key vote on Capitol Hill. And a
judge is blocking the president's effort
to remove Fed Governor Lisa Kirk. That
meeting just one week away.
>> Next week's not going to be boring. I
think that we can say that fairly. That
the Fed meeting on September 17th is
going to be one of great interest. First
of all, yes, Lisa Cook will be there.
Will she vote? That's going to be
something we can get into. Meanwhile,
Steven Myron also may be there given
that he probably will get ushered
through Congress. So, how much are we
going to hear about 50 basis point rate
cuts? How much are we going to get to
sends across the board? Do we get some
bigger numbers put out there? And how
much does that affect market pricing of
just what this Fed has in store?
>> The Treasury Secretary's been pretty
clear about what he wants to see. His
quote, "If the Fed is data dependent and
the data is bad, makeup cuts are
needed." Well, he's basically said this
to you and I, Jonathan, just a few weeks
ago, saying given the revisions, and he
wanted to wait to see what the latest
report was going to say. And after the
latest downward revision of basically
BLS overstating the jobs, almost nearly
1 million jobs, United States of
America, Treasury Secretary easing
towards kind of urging the Fed to cut by
50 basis points. That potentially could
be on the table. Definitely already 25
basis point the market has baked in.
>> He's asking the right question. If we
knew at the time that payrolls were 75k
less every single month over that year,
where would rates be this morning? Isn't
that a question the Fed's got to ask
themselves at this meeting?
>> And it's the reason why they cut by 50
basis points last year around the same
time. So by the same logic, couldn't you
make the same assumption now that
actually we may have seen a couple of
negative payrolls sprints? If you take
the adjustment into uh into all of the
models and take a look at June and July
and August and you start wondering,
okay, is the labor market at the behest
of Fed policy? And is there something
else driving earnings and driving
corporate uh success other than what's
hinged to the labor market? This divide
I have to keep coming back to. And can
Fed rate cuts really support a labor
market that has a lot of very
idiosyncratic aspects to it? You say
you're data dependent, but in real time
the data isn't that dependable. And
that's a big problem. Later on this
morning, more data. PPI 8:30 Eastern
time. Tomorrow morning, CPI. This
morning, equity futures just about
positive on the S&P 500. We have got a
busy 60 minutes coming up. Peter Cheer
of Academy Securities as President
Donald Trump floats new tariffs to
pressure Russia. We catch up with Terry
Haynes of Pangia as a federal judge
blocks the president from firing Fed
Governor Lisa Kirk and Greg Deo of EY on
a massive labor market. We begin this
hour with our top story, escalation risk
in Europe, Poland striking down Russian
drones with the latest. Bloomberg's
Ollle Krook joins us for more. Ollie,
what do we know about how deep this went
into Polish territory and also whether
this was deliberate or an accident?
>> So, those are the fundamental questions,
John. What we know is that there were
more than 10 drones across into Polish
airspace and a number of them were shot
down by the Russian military. It closed
down a huge amount of Polish airspace
including the international flights and
the international airport um outside of
Warsaw. This is not John the first time
we've ever had shrapnel and other sort
of missiles projectiles reach into
Poland. You'll remember in the early
days of the war there was a missile that
overshot Ukraine and landed in Poland
and that provoked a great deal of
concern and anxiety among Europeans and
really globally about whether that sort
of event is the kind of thing that
triggers article 5. The reason, John,
this is significant is this is the first
time a NATO country has shot down
anything from Russia over its own skies
since the beginning of the war and it
has caused the prime minister Donald
Tusk to invoke article 4 to call for
NATO to invoke article 4 which is not
article 5 but reads as follows. The
parties will consult together whether in
the opinion of any of them the
territorial integrity, political
independence or security of any of the
parties is threatened. And we should say
it's significant because it's only ever
happened seven times before since 1949.
And that is the question before the
Europeans today. How big a deal to make
of this? Is this a deliberate effort by
the Russians to encourage to test the
distance of NATO of NATO? Or is it just
indifference from Vladimir Putin
basically not shaken by the possible
threat of either article 5? Either way,
it sends the same signal to the
Europeans and in fact to Donald Trump
who's trying to bring Putin to the
negotiating table that Putin is not
really terribly afraid of NATO and that
he's feeling emboldened and not really
moving his way towards a ceasefire
conversation. So Ollie, this is how the
president wants to address things. He
wants the Europeans to go hard and go
after Russia's biggest partners, India
and China. He wants the Europeans to
ramp up tariffs and he's essentially
telling them, "If you do this, we will
too." How's the EU and European partners
responded to this?
>> Yeah, Jonathan, this is a really sort of
interesting dilemma for the Europeans to
find themselves in. So, this was after a
call in DC between EU officials and US
officials. Trump gets on the horn. He
says, "Listen, we're willing to go 100%
tariffs on China, 100% on India for
buying Russian crude to stifle their
ability to fund the war in Ukraine, but
only if the Europeans go first. The
Europeans need to pose themselves a lot
of difficult questions. I think what the
Europeans would like is for the United
States to go at this alone and not
really have to get involved. But they
need to ask themselves, are they really
willing to torch their relationships
with China, with India? India, who
they're trying to vaguely retain in the
sort of western orbit of influence um
just because Donald Trump has put this
sort of on the table. Maybe they would
if they could rely on Donald Trump. But
at the end of the day, they have very
little faith that there's going to be
necessarily follow through uh with uh
with from the United States. and are
they going to charge headfirst into a
tariff war with China and India um only
to be sort of stood up potentially or
whenever the sort of interest of the
United States shifts. But listen, it's a
very interesting dilemma for the
Europeans to be put in. They need to
find another way to put pressure on
Russia in order to end this war. Maybe
this begins a conversation though I do
not see them, you know, putting in 100%
tariffs on China or India. That's just
not how the EU works.
>> Ollie, appreciate the latest. Ollie live
with the latest from Berlin in Germany.
Amarie, the Treasury Secretary, sat
around this table only a few weeks ago
and made this exact point.
>> He said that he was at the G7 meeting.
He brought up the fact that maybe Europe
needs to start getting on board,
tightening the screws when it comes to
China, India, secondary tariffs are
sanctioned. He said at that point,
everyone decided to look at what kind of
shoes they were wearing. Aka, everyone
got silent because the Europeans don't
want to do it.
>> Let's see what their response is in the
coming days. For the view on Wall
Street, Peter Chief of Academy
Securities joins us around the table.
Pete, good morning. Good morning.
>> It's the great European contradiction.
They want the warm blanket of American
security and they want to maintain an
economic partnership with a country like
China. Is that becoming unsustainable
now?
>> Well, I think even let's take a step
back. Let's revisit the sanctions that
have always kind of been loosely
enforced, not really enforced. You know,
Europe has continued to buy Russian, you
know, energy products this entire time.
So, as a starting point, I think how
about we really crack down on the
sanctions in place, make sure that's
happening, and then maybe push on the
secondary tariffs. I think that would be
a good outcome from this is a real
commitment to actually enforce the
sanctions on the books and move that
direction. I I think you can put
pressure on Russia that way and
secondary tariffs I think are going to
be harder for countries to swallow than
actually enforcing the sanctions agreed
to.
>> When you say enforce the sanctions, you
mean the United States or the European
Union?
>> Primarily the European Union, right?
They have continued to buy Russian
products. They've, you know, looked, I
think, the other way when they buy it
from Kazakhstan knowing that it was
probably shipped from Russian to
Kazakhstan. So I think really enforcing
hey isolating Russia as much as possible
where their only counterparties really
are China and India would be a good
first step. Can China India support them
and if there's the talk of secondary
tariffs maybe that slows down China and
India's interest in dealing with Russia
puts the squeeze on them. Maybe Xi calls
Putin because I think you know our view
has been unless we really do something
you know the stick to Putin he's not
coming to the table. He's fine with the
war. He thinks they're winning and
clearly with the, you know, incursion in
Poland, he's a little bit, you know,
carefree and is going to push the
envelope.
>> Do you think it was deliberate what we
saw overnight?
>> You know, it's hard to say, but I think
it's definitely an indication that he is
nowhere close to coming to the table and
doing some sort of ceasefire. He
believes he's winning. Every step he has
tak,
you know, boundary lines in Ukraine, so
if and when there is a deal, he can
claim more land.
>> It wasn't just this. We also saw
overnight Israel uh attacking a site in
Doha to attack Hamas leaders. This comes
the time as we were getting downward
revisions to jobs. It felt like a
dumpster fire. Stocks reached record
highs. Can you explain that?
>> You know, I think stocks have been very
conditioned to like rate cuts equals
higher stocks. So, I think that's a
little bit of the mode we're in. I have
to admit, you know, I don't follow
Oracle as a company, but their earnings
last, you know, their projection was
really good. So, you're seeing that. So
I think so long as we continue to spend
on the AI and I do think we are seeing
this kind of what we've been calling you
know national production for national
security whether it's investments in
intel MP I think you're going to see
more and more efforts by this
administration to you know produce the
things that we need for national
security and I think that's a positive
>> okay there are positive stories here but
are we conditioned to just ignore
geopolitics because it always seems to
be overblown at first headline then calm
down are we just conditioned to shrug it
off and say if I can't predict it I'm
not going to price it.
>> Yeah, I think that's a big part of it.
So, I think this will kind of, you know,
and again, we've had enough success,
right, where, you know, we've pushed
back on people. They've, you know,
pulled back. We've, you know, Iran's
been very quiet in the last few weeks.
So, I I think you can see some of that.
I'm a little bit worried geopolitically.
I do think we are going to try and
enforce these sanctions. There will be
more chatter about secondary tariffs. I
think the economy is slowing. I think
when we look at, you know, I would say
garbage in, garbage out. My background
was computer science, right? Garbage in,
garbage out. So, I don't think we spend
enough time looking at the data, right?
We take the data and put it into models.
I think the Fed's been doing that like
whoa whoa whoa. Let's take a look at
this data. We've been complaining about
the birth death model saying that right
what this does is take EIN applications.
So people looking for new businesses and
traditionally that meant oh you were
starting a business you hired a few
people. I think now in the gig economy
what it is is someone gets worried about
their job says well maybe I'll drive
Uber on the side or lift on the side.
They go ahead and get themselves an EIN.
So it's not a real job. It's not
creating this. The Fed should know this.
I think that or the BLS maybe should
know this. That's why we've had that
revision. And what really scares me, if
you look from April to this year, we've
produced 260,000 jobs in non-farm
payrolls. We've had 960,000
birth death model jobs, right? What if
those are largely fake? We could be
losing jobs in this economy, which is
kind of my assessment of where we are.
We should be moving aggressively. And I
think the Fed and Treasury should
combine to do something to control the
long end so we don't get a repeat of
last September.
>> Okay, there's a ton to unpack there.
Sorry. Okay, let's start with rates and
then we'll get to the balance sheet.
Okay. On interest rates, I don't know
what's going to happen in the next 24
hours with PPI and CPI, but let's say
it's in line. It's 50 basis points on
the table.
>> Yes, I think so. And let's talk about
garbage in, garbage out one more time.
We still use owner's equivalent rent to
track, you know, shelter, the one of the
biggest components of CPI. There's a
huge lag effect on that. First off, you
know, go ahead and I dare you to read
what OEER is. It's painfully confusing.
It doesn't reflect reality. And in this
day and age, right, the Cleveland Fed
has a real-time rent estimate. Um,
Zillow has real-time rents. Why aren't
we actually tracking that, which is much
lower than what the OE is telling us.
So, I think CPI is overstated. Again,
we're kind of garbage in, garbage out,
and we've been overstating jobs, making
the Fed reluctant, and we've been
overstating inflation, making the Fed
reluctant. I think both are going to be
revised down significantly. If you look
at reality, they should have gone 25
already. I think 50 should be on the
table.
>> So, that's interest rate policy. Now, I
want to give you some credit. You are
one of the very few that is really
focusing on what could happen with the
yield curve looking out 12 months when
we get a brand new Fed. What are you
telling clients about what they should
be focused on?
>> I think that people should be putting
flatteners on. I think a lot of people
expect kind of a repeat of last year
where we lose control over the long end
when there were the rate cuts. I think
one Besson and the Treasury are already
doing bond repurchases. So I think
they're doing some of this. I think
there's a lot of, you know, room on the
Fed balance sheet to do an operation
twist. So I know Besson's spoken to you.
does not like QE but operation twist is
technically not QE right it's balance
sheet neutral it does take duration out
of the market so I think that would be
something that you could do extend there
maybe even switch some of it out of T
bills are shortdated notes into
mortgages right because that's been a
huge focus of this administration so I
think there are things that Fed could do
in conjunction with Treasury that
support that long end of the yield curve
>> we've been talking about it on this
program repeatedly listen to what the
Treasury Secretary and the
administration are telling you what do
they want it's not just lower rates what
they want very specifically is lower
borrowing cost and lower mortgage rates.
To achieve that, you need more than just
an interest rate potentially.
>> This is the reason why it's so
interesting to see the composition of
the Fed and just how much the uh
president can get his fingerprints on
some of the Fed officials because they
might be more willing participants in
operation twist or what have you to be
creative to get those long end rates
down.
>> Pete, this was very cool. Thank you,
sir. Peter cheer there of Securities.
Yields down at the front end this
morning, lowered by a single basis
point, the 2-year 354. With an update on
stories elsewhere this morning with your
Bloomberg brief, let's cross over to
Vonnie Quinn. Hey, Vonyie.
>> Hey, John. Poland shot down drones that
crossed into its territory during a
Russian air strike on Ukraine. The
Polish military calling it a quote act
of aggression and said the drones posed
a threat to the safety of our citizens.
It's the first time Poland has shot down
military aircraft that have strayed into
its airspace since the start of Russia's
war on Ukraine.
President Donald Trump told European
officials he's willing to impose new
tariffs on India and China to push
President Putin to negotiate with
Ukraine, but only if EU nations do so as
well. Other potential measures discussed
include further sanctions on Russia's
shadow fleet of oil tankers and
restrictions on its banks and major oil
companies.
Oracle shares are surging in the
pre-market after the company gave an
aggressive outlook for its cloud
business. Oracle's cloud infrastructure
revenue increased 55% to $3.3 billion
with the company signing four
multi-billion dollar contracts with
three different customers in the
quarter. And that's your Bloomberg
brief. John
>> Vonyie, thank you. Appreciate it. More
from Vonnie in about 30 minutes time. Up
next on the program, Governor Cook stays
on the board.
>> Dr. Cook hasn't said she didn't do it.
And as with so many of President Trump's
policies, we've seen these activist
courts get in the way. Eventually, if
this has to go on an expedited basis to
the Supreme Court, President Trump is
winning.
>> That conversation up next with Terry
Haynes of Pangia live from New York City
this morning. Good morning.
[Music]
Two-day winner streak on the S&P 500.
Alltime highs coming into Wednesday.
Equity futures add some weight to the
rally up by 0.2%. 2% on the S&P on the
NASDAQ 100 up by 0.14. Under
surveillance this morning, Governor Kirk
stays on the board.
>> Dr. Cook hasn't said she didn't do it.
What we've seen is that she's saying she
and her attorney have gone to court and
said that uh President Trump doesn't
have the right to fire her for calls.
And as with so many of President Trump's
policies, we've seen these activist
courts get in the way. Eventually, if
this has to go on an expedited basis to
the Supreme Court, President Trump is
winning.
>> So, here's the latest this morning. A
district judge siding with Fed Governor
Lisa Kirk, at least for now, blocking
President Trump's attempted firing.
Bloomberg's Tyler Kendall joins us now
with the latest. Tyler, good morning.
Reaction from the White House literally
just seconds ago.
>> Right moments ago, John, good morning.
And the White House is really doubling
down on its argument that they have
sufficient cause to fire Lisa Cook after
this decision by this judge that will
allow Cook to retain her seat while the
broader questioning of her firing does
play out in court. And I want to read
you some of what we just got from the
White House saying that this ruling will
not be the last say on the matter and
the Trump administration will continue
to restore accountability and confidence
in the Fed, alluding to the fact that
they are going to swiftly appeal this
decision that came down the other day.
Now, the judge said that Cook is highly
likely to succeed on her arguments that
President Trump did not have sufficient
cause to fire her. And it was
interesting to read in her decision. She
highlighted the fact that these
allegations of mortgage fraud had to do
with Cook's private conduct. Nothing to
do with her time as a Federal Reserve
governor and Cook's lawyers have
previously suggested that if there were
any discrepancies on her mortgage
applications that they were
unintentional and likely due to clerical
error. Now, as we wait for the Justice
Department to officially appeal this
ruling, we do know that DOJ lawyers have
previously argued that it is within the
president's right to determine what is
sufficient cause to remove an official.
Importantly also I wanted to highlight
that this judge said that Cook's due
process rights were likely violated. But
the administration time and time again
has said that they gave Cook sufficient
time to respond to the allegation,
pointing to the 5 days between FHFA
Director Bill Py posting the allegations
on social media and then President Trump
posting her termination on social media
as well. John, this looks like it's
going to head to the Supreme Court. And
while the high court has actually
weakened protections for officials at
independent agencies in recent rulings,
they did signal back in May that the Fed
could be a special case.
>> Tyler Kendall in Washington. Tyler,
thank you. Got the full statement right
in front of me. Lambert to share it with
you. The president lawfully removed Lisa
Cook for cause due to credible
allegations of mortgage fraud from a
highly sensitive position overseeing
financial institutions on the Federal
Reserve Board of Governors. The
statement goes on to read, "This ruling
will not be the last say on the matter,
and the Trump administration will
continue to work to restore
accountability and confidence in the
Federal Reserve."
>> So basically what you see here is that
they're already preparing for their
lawyers to once again appeal and this is
likely headed to the Supreme Court.
Tyler makes a very good point. We heard
from the Supreme Court just months ago
that the Fed is considered a quasi
independent private entity. this
independence. At the same time, we have
seen the Supreme Court be a little bit
more lenient to the Trump
administration. And I think what comes
down to here is what matters for cause.
Will the Supreme Court agree with this
judge when it comes to for cause for the
Federal Reserve Act? Does it mean that
something that has to happen while Lisa
Cook was on the job?
>> Terry Haynes standing by. Terry Haynes
of Pangia Policy. Terry, welcome to the
show and good morning to you, sir. The
Treasury Secretary says ultimately this
will go to the Supreme Court. He
suggested ultimately the president will
win. Do you see it that way too?
>> Uh good morning John and well I I agree
with Secretary Besson on lots of things
and I'm one of your chorus who always
urges people to pay attention to what he
says because he's uh he's giving markets
clues on lots of things. Uh I think this
ultimately does go to the Supreme Court.
Uh there's an appeals court level in
between so this might take a while and
there's a preliminary injunction now
against the president removing uh Miss
Cook. So, uh, I don't think, uh, that's
going to happen anytime soon. So, that's
number one. Number two, I I applaud the
secretary's loyalty to the boss, but,
uh, at the same time, I don't think he
wins. And this is a very very simple
case. It's it's even, uh, the respect to
my friend Ann Marie, it's even simpler
than most people think because the the
Federal Reserve is a creature of
Congress. It's uh, the Adams ribbit
comes from is the Congress that
exercises congressional authority.
Ultimately, with the exception of a four
cause uh uh clause, uh the president has
no ability to uh to deal with the
governors. That's all Congress. So, uh
uh I think the president should get
ready for a little disappointment here.
>> Well, Terry, what happens though if Lisa
Cook, given that we have this DOJ
investigation opened, what if she is
convicted of mortgage fraud? Uh well
then the facts change and uh you know
the the the easiest way to look at this
case is allegations are not cause uh
full stop and uh you know and that's
always true and that that's going to be
true here. Uh and I've always said two
things. One is that the other thing is
that the facts are going to determine
whether or not for cause is sufficient.
And if she actually committed criminal
mortgage fraud, yeah, he's within his
rights to remove her. Sure. uh if not
not uh the punishment's got to fit the
crime here. One of the things I I said
to markets on Sunday was, you know,
there's nobody nobody that's uh that's
actually defending Fed independence.
Forget Trump. Cook herself isn't by
politicizing this case. Uh you know, the
Congress isn't by not taking up its
responsibilities. Even the Fed punditry
around it, uh you know, pushes the thing
for its own purposes rather than
defending Fed independence. Uh, somebody
ought to start defending Fed
independence. Uh, that probably starts
with the Congress as former uh, banking
chairs Graham and Henserling pointed out
last week in the Wall Street Journal.
>> So, so who do you think needs to step up
and do this in Congress?
>> Well, the relevant committees in
Congress, uh, Senate Banking Committee
certainly u, but you know, the Fed
itself isn't defending its its own
independence. The Fed in the past has
has run independent investigations of
its own governors for conduct. The Fed
has an inspector general. Uh the Fed has
more than enough ability to deal with
this itself. Bessant, by the way,
pointed that out a couple of weeks ago.
Um the Fed's still not doing anything. I
understand it's uh they might think it's
a poison chalice. They don't want uh but
you know, the institutional integrity
starts with the institution itself. So,
you know, my two cents is they ought to
take it up. A lot of people are throwing
around this word independence and
integrity and the idea of maintaining
some level of autonomy in the central
bank. What does that look like since
we've seen that defined about 15
different ways?
>> Well, the the the way the way it is
defined uh is that in the Federal
Reserve Act is that the you know, as I
say, the Fed doesn't the Fed isn't an
independent fourth branch of government
with its own authority. The Fed's power
comes solely from Congress. That's it.
Cong under the Federal Reserve Act,
Congress gives the Fed kind of the
granular authority to make its
independent its individual monetary
policy decisions free of interference
from Congress. Uh otherwise, uh it's got
the same oversight, the Congress has the
same oversight over the Fed as it has
over any other agency, including the
Federal Trade Commission, the FCC, the
SEC, anything else. Uh so, you know,
markets have talked themselves into this
grand independence. you know, Allah, the
European Central Bank, that's never
existed. Uh, but what's existed all
along is the commitment to letting the
Fed do its job independently with
respect to monetary policy. Everybody
ought to want that to that to continue.
But the way to do that is to hone in on
what that is and how to preserve it.
>> Hey Terry, appreciate your time as
always, sir. Terry Haynes there of
Pangia Policy. You know, when you've got
something on the calendar that you're
super anxious about, can you imagine
Chairman Pal's feelings about next
week's meeting? He must be absolutely
dreading what's about to take place next
week.
>> He's just stockpiling Xanax. I I have no
idea. But I'm just suggesting, you know,
maybe that's one way of dealing with it.
>> Talk about awkward.
>> I mean, come on. I wonder what the range
of potential feelings are going to be on
that committee.
>> That decision a week away. Up next on
the program, the former senior US
intelligence official Norman R as Israel
targets Hamas in Doha.
[Music]
Two-day winning streak on the S&P 500.
5-day run on the NASDAQ 100. Alltime
highs on the S&P going into more
economic data later this morning. That's
the equity setup this morning. Futures
positive on the S&P, on the NASDAQ, in
the bond market, 2-year, 10year, and
30-year. The 2-year bond yield rising
yesterday after dropping for four
consecutive days. We're back lower again
this morning by a basis point 35479
following some monster revisions on
payrolls and heading into some key
inflation data.
>> Does PPI or CPI even uh make the needle
turn in any which way? There were people
focused purely on the idea that there
was a downside revision that was the
greatest number in data going back to
2000 and the greatest on a percentile
basis going back to 2009. At this point
the market is betting not really. It
would take a pretty hot print which is
why a lot of people are wondering does
it even matter?
>> Payroll cementing the doubbish buys of
the Federal Reserve for next week's
meeting. That's some of the price action
in the bond market. Let's get you some
morning movers with Yahara Anand who has
more. Hey yhara.
>> Hi John. It's the big story this
morning. Oracle shares up 30% in the
pre-market after it gave a very bullish
outlook. The company's booked revenue is
up 359%
from this from the same time last year,
climbing to $455 billion in the latest
quarter. That's thanks to massive cloud
deals with the likes of OpenAI, Tik Tok,
and Nvidia. And the growth not stopping
there with the CEO saying that the cloud
infrastructure unit will pull in $18
billion this year. And that number is
expected to explode to 144 billion
dollars by the end of this decade
underscoring the huge demand for
computing power. And that is helping to
lift other AI infrastructure plays as
well. We are seeing shares of Nvidia
which as I said is a major Oracle
customer up 2% while Coreweave which
provides similar cloud services is up
7%. And we make a hard pivot to the
weight loss market with Nova Nordic
shares up 2% in the pre-market here in
the US. Because the company is slimming
down, the drug maker announced that it
will slash 9,000 jobs globally, which
will help it save $1.3 billion by 2026.
Money that it plans to spend on
research, to develop new drugs, and on
sales because it has been falling behind
Eli Liy in this booming weight loss
market. and it cut its profit forecast
for the third time this year. So
investors hoping that this will help
turn things around under a new CEO who
just took the helm last month. John
>> Yhara, thanks for the update. Appreciate
it. More from Yihara in the next hour on
our radar this morning. Some of our top
stories. President Donald Trump looking
to impose tariffs of up to 100% on India
and China if EU members join. sources
telling us here at Bloomberg that Trump
made the offer to EU leaders in order to
ramp up the pressure on Russia.
Elsewhere, Fed Governor Lisa Kirk
staying on the job for now. A federal
judge blocking President Donald Trump's
attempt at removing Kirk ahead of next
week's FOMC meeting. The White House
saying this morning this ruling will not
be the last say on the matter. And
finally, JP Morgan Barclay's Fifth Third
Bank facing the possibility of hundreds
of millions of dollars in combined
losses. people familiar with the matter
telling us here at Bloomberg the changes
are tied to subprime auto lender
Triricolor.
>> This is actually an incredibly
interesting story on a number of fronts.
On one hand, yes, you could say the
losses, hundreds of millions of dollars,
not going to really move the needle for
the likes of JP Morgan, but when there's
one cockroach in the kitchen, how many
more are there? This was a company that
focused on lending auto loans in
particular to poor individuals in the
United States, a lot of immigrants. And
some of the lenders are looking into
allegations that potentially some of
those auto loans, the actual receivables
were double pledged to other assets.
Right? There was this huge layoff on uh
from Tricolar staff over the past couple
of weeks. And here's my question, right?
How much does this indicate the fraying
between the economy, which isn't doing
so great, and corporate America, which
has been going gang busters even with
layoffs and all these other things.
There's there's so many stories wrapped
up in this. It's a mystery to see this
coming out at a time supposedly of such
strength in uh corporate America.
>> Potentially a serious story. I'm just
impressed that both of us got through
this without saying trickle.
>> Well, I really struggled there for a
second and did you feel that too?
>> I was waiting for it.
>> You saw this, right?
>> You were laughing so I was trying to
trickor.
>> Yeah. You know, it's like well it's you.
Okay, let's move on.
>> Yeah, you did a great job.
>> Going to come back to that story a
little bit later this morning. A serious
one. Let's turn to another serious one
in geopolitics in the Middle East.
Israel conducting an unprecedented
strike in Kata targeting Hammer's senior
leadership. The president showing a rare
break from supporting Israel's actions.
>> I was very unhappy about it. Very
unhappy about every aspect and uh we got
to get the hostages back. But I was very
unhappy about the way that went down.
>> Joining us now from the region is
Bloomberg's Jamaa Beti. Jamanna, welcome
to the program. Let's just get into
this. How is the region responded to
this?
>> Shock and anger, condemnation came
through straight away both from Qataris
who were irate. I would say if you
listen to the Qatari Prime Minister
Shikh Muhammad's press conference
yesterday, visibly angry at likening the
attack on Doha to state terror. He said
it is a blatant violation of
international laws and norms and also a
violation of moral standards referring
to the fact that there is an unwritten
rule of diplomacy and that you don't
attack chief negotiators and you
certainly don't attack the country that
is hosting those mediation talks. Now
what should be noted here is that
despite the attack the chief brass the
chief political brass that Israel had
been targeting survived the attempt.
Khalil Haya was the person that they
were mostly uh looking to to to hit in
this attack and he actually survived.
And this morning the Israel Defense
Minister Israel Kat said that they will
continue to go after their enemies. And
why is this relevant? Because if you
expect or if the expectation is that
Qatar will continue mediating, they also
need to have guarantees that an attack
like this will not happen again. And so
later in the evening, a call was
reportedly Reportedly, a call took place
between President Trump and the Amir of
Qatar where President Trump urged Qatar
to continue along with their diplomatic
efforts. But in exchange, Qatar have
said quite explicitly that they need to
have a guarantee that incursions like
this will not happen again. So the bar
is just so much higher now in terms of a
diplomatic breakthrough. And of course,
the backdrop to all of this is the US
had put forward another ceasefire
proposal. Uh yesterday the Israeli prime
minister said that they're willing to
sign up to the terms of that proposal,
but it's up to Hamas now to accept some
of the terms that are being put down. No
answer obviously from Hamas. And at this
point, it is unclear whether Qatar will
continue with the same momentum and and
with the same drive as they did before
given the uncertainty around those
security guarantees uh and the
insuranceances that an attack like this
won't happen again.
>> Jamanna, great reporting as always.
Jamaichi leading some of our coverage
out of the region. Joining us from Dubai
this morning, the former senior US
intelligence official Norman Ro writing
this. In the near term, the attack will
put Hamas leadership in a state of
crisis as it seeks to survive, maintain
command and control, and develop a
strategy to sustain the organization.
Norm joins us now for more. Norm,
welcome to the program. Sir, as we know,
Israel is at war with Hamas. And as we
also know, Hamas isn't just in Gaza,
it's elsewhere. Do you consider this a
one-off or a new front?
This is neither a one-off nor a new
front. Since October 7th, the Israeli
military has adopted a strategy where
they're using their excellent
intelligence, their superb military
technology to go after high value
adversary uh targets throughout the
region to eliminate those targets before
the adversaries can develop plans to
repeat uh an October 7th like event.
We've seen the Israeli military operate
in Lebanon, Syria, Yemen, Iran. But
Qatar is different. Qatar is not an an
adversary state. It is a member of the
Gulf Cooperation Council. In Israel's
entire history, it has never conducted
military operations against the Gulf
Cooperation Council. Israel is also a
partner of the United States, a major
non-NATO ally. And indeed, Israel has
conducted diplomatic engagement in Qatar
with Hamas uh and with the Qatari
government. So the Israeli action in
Qatar is extraordinary by um many
measures.
>> There's also a massive US base there in
Doha. Norm, is this another red line
that turned pink where we just are
struggling to now find where the lines
in the sands are?
>> We're in a region where many red lines
have turned pink. Uh for many years the
Iranians uh turned many red lines pink
as they broke many diplomatic norms. But
now the uh uh the US has attacked Iran.
Uh the Israelis have attacked Iran. Now
the Israelis are attacking different
places. We're watching a region where um
issues that we everyone believe the
rules of the game were understood are no
longer understood. And I think this has
unsettled many of the region's leaders
who have looked for a stable future as
they develop economic plans and social
plans as they're trying to stabilize
what has been a difficult region for
many years uh has made it made them very
concerned and for this reason Israel is
seen by some as a disruptive uh actor.
Now in Israel's defense they have made
it clear Hamas was responsible for
October 7th. its leaders are dead men
walking and they're going to eradicate
the organization. They've not veered
from that um uh posture and they have
not gone after other actors and they're
not going after their neighbors. They're
just going after uh individuals we
consider to be terrorists. Final point,
Hamas is considered to be a terrorist
organization by many of the states in
the region to include by many of the
states of the Gulf Cooperation Council.
Yeah, you said something very important
there, Norm, that increasingly a lot of
people in the region, a lot of leaders
are viewing Israel as the disruptor or
the destabilizer in some ways even more
than Iran. How much does that take off
the table any idea of normalization?
>> Well, I think normalization is um not on
the table in the near term. But we also
want to be clear as well. If you are uh
a believer in the uh Indian Middle East
corridor to Europe, it's a simple matter
of geography. the uh idea of
communications uh uh uh energy or uh
other lines going to Europe, you need
the geography of the Levant or Israel.
Now when that happens uh is a is a
different question and how that happens
is a different question. But sooner or
later engagement with Israel is going to
be a reality, but in the near term
that's not going to be the case. At the
same time, Israel and Iran are in very
different categories. Iran is creating
militias that kill civilians routinely.
Uh Iran has shut down the Red Sea with
the Houthis. Iran has proliferated
ballistic missiles to terrorist
organizations. Israel does none of this.
Israel and Iran are in very separate
categories.
>> This also though ties the hands a bit of
the United States which is trying to
walk this very fine line of maintaining
relationships with Qatar and others in
the uh in the Gulf region while also
being somewhat supportive of Israel.
What do you make of the recent break
with President Trump in response to
Israel and a sort of fraying of the
relationship? It seems at least on the
face between President Trump and BB
Netanyahu.
>> Well, we have seen some evidence that
the United States will uh go in a
different direction from Israel on in in
in other in other areas in the past. For
example, uh the United States has spoken
with Hamas directly at times and that
was not always something that Israel uh
accepted. The United States held talks
with Iran longer than Israel may have
seen appropriate. Uh likewise, when the
president visited the Middle East in
May, he did not visit Israel, which some
people saw as unusual. The United States
has an independent policy uh in the
Middle East from Israel. that that's
that's that uh and but at the same time
the there is no question in my mind the
United the president of the United
States is committed to the defense of
Israel and standing with the Israeli
people when necessary uh if they're
under threat by Iran but he is clearly
not supportive of this uh action because
he it disrupts many of the uh efforts he
had underway to work free hostages.
>> Norm thanks for making time for us this
morning. We appreciate it. the former
senior US intelligence official Norman
Ro. We've had some brief comments from
the president in reaction to this story.
A full statement coming a little bit
later.
>> Yeah, he was outside yesterday briefing
reporters before he went into dinner and
he said he's never surprised really by
anything that happens in the Middle
East. He said he'll be giving a full
statement today, but he said this. I was
very unhappy about it. So obviously this
White House is seemingly pretty annoyed
with how Israel conducted themselves in
the region.
>> We'll look for that statement a little
bit later this morning and later on
today. Equity futures on the S&P 500. If
you are just joining us, positive here
by a quarter of 1% later this morning.
The main event 8:30 Eastern time PPI
data. Tomorrow morning we'll get CPI.
Let's give you an update on stories
elsewhere with your Bloomberg brief.
Let's cross over to Vonyie Quinn. Hey
Vonnie.
>> Hey John. Thank you. The Supreme Court
has fasttracked a challenge to President
Donald Trump's tariffs. The court agreed
to hear cases brought by businesses hurt
by the levies in the first week of
November. The tariffs remain in place
for now, but a decision striking down
the tariffs could cut the US refund
amount to tens of billions of dollars,
which it will have to pay back.
Apple rolled out its next generation
iPhones at an event yesterday. The
iPhone 17 lineup includes a new slimmed
down model called the Air, a name it
already uses for its sleekst iPads and
Mac computers. All four new iPhone 17
models will feature better cameras and
longerlasting batteries than last year's
lineup and will be available in stores
September 19th.
South Korea chartered a plane to bring
home hundreds of workers being detained
in a US immigration crackdown in
Georgia. The plane was set to take off
today, but South Korea's foreign
ministry said the departure has been
delayed due to US circumstances.
Officials are in talks with their
American counterparts to return the
detainees as soon as possible. And that
is your Bloomberg brief. John
>> Vonyie, thank you. Appreciate it. More
from Vonnie in about 30 minutes from
now. Up next on the program, a massive
jobs revision.
>> This was one of the biggest revisions in
the absolute terms in decades. U
benchmark year March 2024 to 2025 shows
that the job growth was vastly weaker
during the Biden administration than
ever previously reported. What does it
mean for policy from here? Greg Dakov
White joins us next live from New York
City. You're watching Bloomberg TV.
[Music]
We're getting a double dose of inflation
data in the next 24 hours at 8:30
Eastern time PPI. Then on to tomorrow
CPI next week, a week today. A Federal
Reserve decision just around a corner.
Coming into that, your scores look like
this this morning. Equity futures
positive by a third of 1% on the S&P up
by 210 on the NASDAQ 100. Under Savannah
this morning, a massive jobs revision.
>> This was one of the biggest revisions in
absolute terms in decades. uh in the
benchmark year March 2024 to 2025 shows
that the job growth was vastly weaker
during the Biden administration than
ever previously reported. Between this
revision and last year's job growth was
actually overstated by approximately 2
million jobs.
>> So here's the latest this morning. The
White House reiterating criticism of the
BLS on the heels of disappointing
benchmark payrolls revisions. The
Treasury Secretary Scott Besson calling
on the Fed to recalibrate its stance,
writing this. President Trump inherited
a far worse economy than reported and
he's right to say the Fed is choking off
growth with high rates. Joining us now
to discuss is Greg Deka, the chief
economist at EY. Greg, good morning to
you, sir.
>> Morning.
>> Let's talk about these revisions. Do
they matter going forward for policy
from here?
>> I don't think they matter that much
going forward, but they do reflect an
economy that was softer than previously
anticipated. So, what matters, I think,
going forward is the momentum that we
carry into the rest of the year and into
2026 when it comes to the labor market.
And there we're seeing softness. The
latest jobs report indicates that over
the last three months we've only been
adding about 30,000 jobs a month. And we
have uh a bunch of other uh economic
indicators on the labor market front
that are also pointing towards that
softness. The flow of labor market uh
activity when it comes to hiring is at a
10-year low. You're seeing a creep up in
the number of people that are filing for
uh unemployment benefits. you're seeing
long-term unemployment uh rate measures
that are at the highest in the
post-pandemic era. So, you are seeing
more evidence of a softening in labor
market conditions. And the very reason
why this matters is because this is
weighing on income growth momentum and
in turn forcing consumers to make
difficult decisions when it comes to
spending activity. And that is where
you're going to see the slowdown coming
out of consumer spending activity. If
this Federal Reserve was aware at the
time of just how much weaker this labor
market was, would rates be lower this
morning than they are now?
>> I think the Fed would have been on an
easier uh trajectory when it comes to
monetary policy. Uh if you look back
over the last few months, we've had a
few policy makers led by Governor Waller
arguing that there was room for the Fed
to neutralize monetary policy. We're not
talking about vast rate cuts to bring
rates down close to zero. We're talking
about a move that would bring the Fed
funds rate from a slightly restrictive
stance towards a more neutral stance
over the course of the next few months.
And now we have greater evidence of this
labor market softness. Again, it's not a
cliff, but we are seeing increasing
evidence of a visible softening in labor
market conditions. And that should be a
rationale for the Fed to be neutralizing
monetary policy with gradual rate cuts,
especially in an environment where
underlying inflationary forces were
moving towards 2%. We don't have the
risk of second round effects from
inflation via the wage growth channel in
an environment where the labor market is
softening. How much power does the Fed
have to juice the labor market right now
by cutting rates?
>> Well, I think the Fed has the power to
buffer the shocks that we're seeing
right now. We're seeing a number of
supply side shocks that are constraining
the economy, the trade and tariff
shocks, the immigration shocks, the
higher pressure on goods price
inflation, and the Fed has essentially
the ability to essentially limit the
pressure from higher interest rates on
the economy. Now, one important caveat
here is that what matters perhaps more
for the economy is long-term rates. So,
the Fed does not necessarily have that
much ability to control long-term rates.
And so, the cost of credit may actually
remain higher if there are a few factors
that keep these long-term rates high.
One, the lack of Fed credibility and
potential political influence on the
Fed. Two, the risk that we see ongoing
policy uncertainty keeping these those
long rates higher. And three, the risk
that there is this anticipation of
higher inflation for longer that may
also pressure long-term.
>> The reason why I ask Oracle yesterday
came out, they performed amazingly. They
said that they have this 77% uh expected
increase in their cloud computing
services in particular stocks surging,
$200 billion of market cap gain. When
you look at the details, they're going
to spend more money and they're going to
cut staff in order to do it. And they've
continued to cut staff. And you've seen
this around the board with a lot of
these big tech players that have been
fueling a lot of the gains in investment
in the economy reducing staff to do it.
>> Doesn't this suggest something bigger
than what the Fed can address by cutting
interest rates?
>> I mean, there's only so much the Fed can
do in the face of supply shocks. So,
that's the first thing we have to
realize. We're in an economy where we're
no longer driven only by demand shocks.
We're increasingly driven by supply
shocks. And the very type of
developments that you're talking to in
terms of a potential technological
revolution is another sign of this
supply shock. It's working the other way
than tariffs or immigration shocks
because it's actually increasing supply,
but it's doing so in a way that is
revolutionizing the way we think about
labor market activity. And so that's
another factor that may limit labor
supply and mean that we need less labor
demand in this environment and therefore
not as much pressure upward on the
unemployment rate. I'm very much in line
with that view that we're seeing an
economy that is currently being exposed
to a number of supply shocks that are
distorting the traditional measures that
we typically use to measure how healthy
an economy is. Notwithstanding that, I
do still think that we're seeing a
slowdown in labor market demand that is
weighing on income and in turn will
force consumers to make those difficult
decisions to start pulling back in terms
of consumer spending activity. And
businesses are also feeling the pinch.
They're in this uncomfortable
environment where the cost of goods, the
cost of services is increasing and their
customers have less ability to spend in
a higher cost environment. So they're
seeing their margins being squeezed. I
think we'll see some of that actually
reflected in the PPI data where the
markups that were a key factor driving
PPI increases uh last month are actually
going to be under pressure over the
course of the next few months.
>> But didn't chairman Powell tell us all
to look through it? It's not really
going to matter just yet in terms of the
tariff impact on inflation.
>> Well, I think it's likely to be a
one-time shock because of this softness
in the labor market. We're not
necessarily going to see employees
bargaining for greater wages and
employers are constrained by these
higher input costs. So, they're likely
to put downward pressure on wage growth.
And so I would anticipate that over the
course of the next few months we're
going to see more moderate wage growth
pressures, which means that there is
less of a risk of essentially inflation
becoming more embedded. Unless, of
course, there is ongoing pressure on the
Fed to essentially ease monetary policy
more than would be required by economic
conditions.
>> Oneoff, but not all at once. Sounds like
the new transitory, doesn't it? That's
essentially what it is, right? this idea
that you might get the trickle out
effect to uh compensate for higher
tariffs but it won't lead to a
protracted higher inflation rate
basically justification to look through
it.
>> Greg appreciate your time. Thank you
>> and congratulations incoming president
of NAB of course. So we'll hear much
more from you in the future I'm sure.
Great to echo there of EY and the latest
in this economy. The latest on this
economy we'll see at 8:30 Eastern time
PPI CPI in the next 24 hours. It's
amazing how few people aren't focused on
that data relative to what we've seen in
payrolls more recently
>> because of exactly what you just said.
If they're going to look through any hot
prints and you have a labor market that
quite clearly is cooling, well, right
now PPI and CPI are all but irrelevant,
which raises the question, how off sides
would this market be if it sort of
muscled its way into being a little more
relevant?
>> I think that's the question for the next
24 hours, isn't it? Amen. That decision
about a week away for the Federal
Reserve. Coming up next on this program,
Jim Zelta, the president of Apollo
Global Management, Republican
Congressman French Hill, and Lafy Kui of
Goldman Sachs from New York City. The
second hour of Bloomberg Surveillance.
Up next,
[Music]
Equity Markets are still in this
honeymoon phase.
>> What's the best liquid nominal asset
class? it's equities.
>> We're pretty constructive on risk
assets. There's much more benchmark FOMO
going up than there has been down.
>> We're still looking at a bull market
that continues to maybe 6600, 6,800 by
the end of the year.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramitz, and An
Marie Hordern.
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning. For our
audience worldwide, the second hour of
Bloomberg surveillance starts right now.
And your scores look like this. Alltime
highs coming into Wednesday. Equity
futures adding some weight to the rally
up by 0.3% on the NASDAQ up by 0.2 in
the bond market. Yields very close to
the lows for the year just about 90
minutes away from economic data. 35479
on twos. That economic data is just
around the corner. 8:30 Eastern time
PPI. Then on to tomorrow CPI, a double
dose of inflation data coming up.
>> How high does it have to be before
people care about it? That's my ultimate
question because right now everyone's
focus is on the labor market and what
that means for a Fed that seems poised
to cut rates. The debate will be fierce
given some of the personnel changes or
not. On uh the Fed committee, a question
here of how divorced the underlying
economy is from some of this corporate
development that we see that keeps
powering stocks to all-time highs. So
disconnected from what's going on when
you look at the numbers from the labor
market and the revisions yesterday. a
revision on record overstating jobs by
nearly a million. And this is why the
Treasury Secretary has come out and said
basically the Trump administration
inherited a far worse economy that many
were expected because if you're seeing
this underlying weakening in the labor
market, this was before Trump was
inaugurated earlier this year.
>> They're not pushing for 25, they're
pushing for 50 from this Federal Reserve
this time next week. This morning,
equity futures positive by 0.3%. The
equity market doing better than good
recently. Coming up this hour, Jim Zelta
of Apollo with investors betting big on
a rate cut. Congressman French Hill as a
judge blocks President Trump's bid to
fire Fed Governor Lisa Kirk and Lafy
Kurui of Goldman Sachs with the Fed
keeping a close eye on inflation. We
begin this hour with stocks hitting
fresh all-time highs ahead of a double
dose of inflation data. Jim Zela, the
president of Apollo Global Management,
out with a new report asking the
question, what if the world doesn't work
the way you think it does? Zoutra and
the team going on to write the era of
free money is over. Ultra low interest
rates are history. Inflation is
structural, not transitory. It's
redefining risk, return, and the cost of
capital. Jim joins us now for more. Jim,
good morning.
>> I got to hire you at Apollo as a
marketing guy. You're doing a good job.
>> I'm going to go one step further.
>> Thank you.
>> I woke up the other week, came into the
office, handwritten note from you, and
it said, "Public markets power the
narrative. Private markets power the
economy." Just start there. What is the
question you're posing for clients at
the moment? What do you want to get them
to think about?
Well, it's a bigger conversation about
market structure and the changing
backdrops about how investors think
about investing from a 60/40 portfolio
historically and the tools they have to
create better outcomes with less
volatility. The reality is alternatives
have worked for 40 years for
institutions. And if we think
thoughtfully about the growing need for
retirees around the globe, how do we
augment what's worked well in the past,
but may not be the compass for the
future. On the other side of the coin,
it's for companies, uh, 8,000 companies
down to 4,000. The role of private
capital is changing. Companies like
SpaceX and SP and Stripe can become stay
private for much longer. And so a little
bit when I hear about your headlines
this morning, I feel like many folks
that come on talk a little bit about the
world in the rearview mirror versus
looking through the windshield. And the
real aha moment for us came three two
three years ago when we heard when we
saw what was going on with rates rising
dramatically in this cycle. And
universally we all thought that the
economy would hit skids and there would
be tightening financial conditions and
that really didn't happen. So that was a
very practical uh uh situation where we
we really said maybe maybe our textbook
that we've using all along is wrong. But
changing market structure, how companies
finance, how investors invest. Um
there's it's it is a new playbook, a new
paradigm
>> redefining public and private markets.
Our good friend Mark Ran would often
talk about this and say often the
distinction was risk higher risk in
private markets and now the distinction
I think you and the team want to make is
liquidity.
>> Yeah. I mean the the old idea when we we
grew up in a marketplace this is my 40th
year in the business where private was
was risky and volatile and public was
safe and liquid. And there's many
examples right now. Now I come from the
world of credit you know that and I
started out as a high yield/junkbond
trader back in the 80s and there was it
might have been it might have been a
public security but trust me it was
volatile and it was risky and now over
30 years is now junk bonds have become
high yield in an asset class there's
still a lot of inherent volatility in
that and again we would say that across
the whole riskreward spectrum you know I
grew up in Rochester New York Kodak
Xerox Balam three great American and
icon companies. They didn't get the memo
on disruption. They were safe in
investment grade companies and voila,
they're not in existence anymore.
>> Can we talk about how things have
changed over the last 40 years? So you
and the team would often talk about you
are what you originate. You are what you
create. The capex needs of companies now
seem to have changed. I was reading the
transcript from your address at a
financial markets conference earlier
this week and you talked about the capex
needs 20, 30, 40 years ago relative to
now and the change in quality, the
change in character of things. How
important is that given where we're at?
>> Well, just just to reset that question,
you know, in in the last 30 years, the
high yield market globally has financed
companies that are going through either
regulatory change or technology change.
Think cable, think shale, think
airlines, think telecommunications. And
for the most part, that massive capex
was on non-investment grade companies.
As we sit here in 2025 over the next 10
years, massive capex boom between data,
AI, sustainability, energy transition,
transmission lines, the transaction we
did for RWE this year uh this week in
Germany. And so I don't think people
people are still thinking that private
credit and private capital is small
illquid non-investment grade companies.
And the reality is 80 to 90% of the
private credit market is really
investment grade counterparties
investment grade debt. And again many
many companies now are afforded the
opportunity to stay private much longer
because of the breadth and the well and
and the breadth of the financing
markets. to build on what John is
talking about. Does private debt have
more of a role than private equity at
this point?
>> Well, the the the the debt markets and
the capital markets and the credit
markets are as we as as the Congress
learned in 0709, it's the lifeblood of
the economy. When GE could not roll over
their commercial paper, it was the aha
moment for the Congress to say, "Wait a
second, we need to act here." And so
when you think about the scope of
private credit and scale certainly the
application with investment grade
solutions it's in the multi multi-
trillions 10 to 40 trillion and the PE
industry is a a 7 to 10 trillion
depending on how you think about the dry
powder and the overhang. So I would
argue over the next decade the impact of
private credit investment grade and
non-investment grade will probably have
as large an impact if not larger than
private equity has had in the last
decade.
>> So the peak of private equity is over.
>> Well, I would I wouldn't say that. I
mean I I I think that the the private
equity industry is going to go through
an an evolution. Um and it's going to be
a Darwinian evolution. And I think that,
you know, the the the challenges of
monetization, the challenges of upfront
capital commitments, there will be fewer
and fewer firms that are able to go to
investors and and and have that dialogue
and have that relationship. We believe
we're one of them because of our
investment track record. But the reality
is I I think that many PE firms that
business model is going to change and
how can they adapt. This is a really
important conversation to be having
especially because on surveillance we
keep talking about the divide between
public markets and the underlying
economy and it seems like it's growing
in an increasingly dramatic fashion and
we keep wondering whether the economy is
really struggling right now at least by
virtue of some of these labor market
pictures the same time that you're
seeing the oracles of the world do very
well are you seeing that are you seeing
the need for money to be a little more
free right now in order to juice some of
that activity
>> you know we're not seeing yet but I do
think the question you're really asking
is and and it is the same question about
you know with the amount public markets
used to be a great diversifier for
portfolios and it really was the bell
weather how the US economy and the
global economy was doing but as more
companies have stayed private and more
companies are funding privately you
really are questioning that barometer
and what it's telling you uh Torson has
a good piece out this morning talking
about the concentration of the capex
cycle and how it's concentrated in a
handful of companies in data, AI, and
technology. And while the capex is a
massive number and it's driving a
northstar to growth, you're asking a
provocative question. Is it really
hiding the underlying economy, which is
driven by private companies? 90% of the
hiring in America is by private
companies. And is that a different story
today? It could be. Um we're seeing if
you look at the public numbers in terms
of earnings over the second quarter, it
beat consensus by 700 basis points, 11
versus 4. And for the most part, the
credit portfolios that we oversee, the
mult,000s of counterparty risk 3 to
4,000, it actually showed um quality
upgrades 3 to one versus downgrades in
terms of performance. So in the breadth
of our credit portfolios, we're not
seeing a weakness. I will tell you we
definitely see more lingering inflation
and I do believe that the uh while this
administration is dead set on getting
rates lower um I believe that there is a
legacy inflation issues in the economy.
When's the last time any one of us
bought something in the last year and
you said wow that was cheaper than a
year ago. it has not happened and that's
just in the and I and I do believe
that's going to be the scourge of this
rate cycle because I do believe there's
greater inflation and companies are
having it a much more challenging time
passing that along to to consumers we're
seeing it across the board
>> there's a lot to unpack there one of the
things I wanted to unpack was the
concentration risk and the AI financing
that we've seen both in data centers and
the energy transition there's a quote in
the last year that's just stuck with me
for the last 12 months and it came from
the alphabets CEO that the bigger risk
is underinvesting and not overinvesting.
And that just sounded like a commitment
to overinvesting. Now, I'd want to
understand how your industry avoids a
massive misallocation of resources at a
time when everyone is chasing the same
story.
>> Well, it's a it's it feels like you have
a bug in our investment committee rooms.
I mean, I I've been talking the last 6
months about the uh cycles of of dark
fiber in the late '9s, of shale, uh, you
know, in the early teens, 10 to 12 to
16, and and certainly enterprise
software the last 5 years. And you have
to be concerned as an investor today.
Are you taking equity risk for a fixed
rate of return? That's the ultimate sort
of bubble, if you would. And um I don't
think that the true economics certainly
consumers industry the economy is going
to benefit but not all industries as
they evolved was it a great investor to
be to be an investor. Um the the the
cell phone industry is a great example.
Only in the last decade has it become a
good investment for companies to invest.
So I I don't I don't have the answer to
that one. It's a it's a question we're
asking ourselves now. we find ourselves
um both on the debt and the equity side
of funding a lot of the data center
activity. Um but there's a tremendous
amount needed and there's a voracious
appetite but but I certainly understand
what what the Alphabet uh uh executive
was saying.
>> Do you think there's a bit of a duration
mismatch between how long it takes to
build a data center and how long it
takes to build the energy infrastructure
to enable it and could that be
problematic? There there certainly is we
have spent more time the energy supply
issue could be a governor to growth. Um
and that's a challenge that we've not
seen yet. But if you pencil out the
numbers that could be a concern but I
think you're the the the bigger question
is back the first one we asked is these
are 10 20 30-year uh infrastructure
builds. who really with with our
marketplace going towards indexes and
ETFs and mo pod multi-pod shops that are
all thinking about you know momentto-
moment liquidity the era of the long
investor it's a question mark who is
that long investor and we would say it's
the retirees of tomorrow every day
12,000 folks in the US you know hit 65
and the west broadly speaking and other
countries around the world have not done
a great job with retirees and So the
ability to thoughtfully introduce
long duration infrastructure inflation
hedge assets into these portfolios. In
the UK they call it matching adjustment
um for insurance assets. Those are
really where the growth of our business
is going to go and that's going to
benefit investors.
>> This makes a lot of sense particularly
if you're investing for retirement. You
don't need daily liquidity. That's just
logical. I think where the criticism is
coming from for your industry at the
moment is that family offices are
already doing a lot of this. I think you
and the team have talked about that a
ton. High net worth individuals are
doing the same. You're now going after
retail and then people start to feel a
little bit uncomfortable with that. Are
you looking for a new bag holder? Are we
looking for someone else to pick up the
pieces? What's the response from you and
the team to address that head on?
>> I think it's all about um uh doing it in
a methodical, logical, diverse way.
um you know this is all about the the
you know the proper amounts and the
proper diversity. Um certainly we would
never advocate for someone taking an
outsized portfolio of their retirement
and putting it all into alternatives.
But clearly over the last 30 to 40 years
history has shown us that an allocation
of alternatives 10 to 20% of a portfolio
increases returns and brings down
volatility. And so from our perspective,
there's a variety of areas in the world
of credit in particular, the world of
infrastructure, the world of secondaries
that are more yieldoriented
compounding
uh type of vehicles. And certainly we
have a view that private equity while a
very attractive asset class even in
returns over the next 10 decade mid to
high teens that that should be done in
appropriate doses. So, it's all about
diversity and and proper portfolio
allocation.
>> We've got no bugs in the boardroom.
Don't worry, Jim. It's going to see it.
You're going to stay with us. Jim Zela
of Apollo. Perhaps, perhaps not. All
right. Let's give you an update on
stories. We don't elsewhere this morning
with your Bloomberg brief. Here's Vonnie
Quinn. Hey, Vonnie.
>> Hey, John. Thank you so much. French
President Emanuel Mu has named Sebastian
Lu to be the country's new prime
minister. Loru, a defense minister, will
become the country's fifth prime
minister in two years. The last two
premers were ousted after trying to pass
budgets that would sharply reduce
France's deficit, the widest in the Euro
area.
A judge has temporarily blocked
President Trump's effort to remove Lisa
Cook from her position as a Fed
governor. The ruling allows Cook to
remain in her postly challenges the
White House's attempt to oust her over
allegations of mortgage fraud. The judge
found the alleged misconduct likely does
not amount to cause for her removal.
Top lawmakers are opposing President
Trump's proposal to fund the government
through January 31st. The push back
increases the risk of an October 1st
government shutdown. The White House's
plan calls for a series of changes to
funding levels and is more than two
months longer than lawmakers on both
sides initially wanted. And that's your
Bloomberg brief. John
>> Bonnie, thank you. Up next on the
program, fasttracking a tariff review.
>> I'm confident the Supreme Court's going
to go with us. We do have a fallback
position. It's more cumbersome and I
think it limits the president's hands to
do these great deals. Up next on the
program, we'll have more from Jim Delta
of Apollo live from New York City this
morning. Good morning.
[Music]
Live from New York, equity futures
positive by a third of 1%. The economic
data 1 hour and 11 minutes away. Futures
up across the board on the NASDAQ at
least on the NASDAQ up by 0.2. Small cap
some massive underperformance as we
closed out summer. Some underperformance
this morning. We're down by about a
third of 1%. Summer, by the way, just
for the record, continues.
>> I know you're going to say that
September 21st
ridiculous. And you're wearing black, so
I don't see you wearing a white suit.
>> This is all year. It's not seasonal.
Okay. under surveillance this morning.
You know that fasttracking a tariff
review.
>> I'm confident the Supreme Court's going
to go with us. We do have a fallback
position. It's more cumbersome and I
think it limits the president's hands to
do these great deals. What a tragedy it
would be to be overruled on this. I
think courts are very reluctant to
overrule a president's signature policy.
>> So, here's the latest this morning. The
Supreme Court fast-tracking a challenge
to President Trump's global tariffs. The
court agreeing to hear arguments in the
first week of November
>> says music to the ears of this
administration, especially the Treasury
Secretary who has talked about the fact
that actually this is infringing on how
they are negotiating right now with some
partners. As he said, this is the
president's one of the president's
signature economic policy proposals. And
the Supreme Court is going to decide,
Jonathan, whether or not they're legal
or not. And what they want to see is
that they want to know as soon as
possible. They don't want to be at the
very end of the court's term next
summer. So, we're going to start that
hearing about this at the Supreme Court
in November. So, it is a very fast track
for the administration.
>> Jim Zout, the president of Apollo Global
Management, still with us. Jim, let's
continue this conversation. At the start
of the year, you talked about macro
paralysis. This story is continuing. It
just feels like this market, public
markets have moved on. Have you and a
team moved on?
>> Yes. I think if you if you if you landed
from Mars today and and you had not had
the benefit of the last 6 months, the
idea of the death of US exceptionalism
would not be on your radar screen and
you'd have four or five things. You'd
say massive capex cycle in front of us.
You'd say administration pro business
and determined to cut rates. You'd say
that the last quarter's public numbers
in terms of equities and and credit have
been strong. and you'd say there's a big
M&A pipeline and we're on record to have
the second biggest M&A light a year
versus versus 21. So all those things
would point to invest rates are going
lower spreads are going to stay tight
and I can give butts to all of those but
that is that's the trend going on right
now and the idea that investors were
going to you know boycott the US FDI has
been massively strong the last four or
five months and you know knockwood we've
had a we've had a very strong year
across our public and our private
businesses um a lot of origination this
week we led a very large transaction for
RWE which is exactly what we're talking
about about big private solutions energy
transmission a very exciting business uh
it's a blockbuster business um one we
would never have talked about years ago
but they have billions upon billions of
needs to restructure the transmission
system in in Germany so um the markets
markets are the animal spirits are
fairly are back there are lots of little
hiccups out there uh and whether it's
instability or valuations or other
headaches but yes uh active market we've
been active in the US and Europe
dramatically this this year um and the
pipeline is quite strong
>> have you found the need to hedge from
the US a little bit more given the fact
that there is this policy uncertainty
but more so this question around the Fed
cutting rates allowing inflation to run
hot and a depreciation of the dollar
>> you know you know certainly you uh
there's been a lot more hedging of of
invest investments from overseas
investors and certainly um you know we
we typically because most of our
liabilities are in the dollars we will
hedge back to the dollar as well but uh
we certainly want to have exposure to
other economies in addition to the US
because the concern about inflation
>> do you think this is a real deal in
Europe I get the feeling you do
>> well you know there was interesting
article I read this morning that a year
after the draggy report like 11% of the
proposals have put in been put in place.
Um, so I I think companies are I I see
corporate leadership in a variety of
sectors and I see a few government
leaders, you know, passionately
passionately pursuing this, but I think
the overall pace is not what it should
be. Um, and the the paralysis of the the
the broad uh government uh oversight in
Europe is holding the progress back. Uh,
so it's not it's not as fast as we would
like it, but it's a train we want to be
on.
>> What would be an easy change to make
that train go faster?
>> You know, they they they've pushed for a
variety of of relaxation of some of the
securization rules. Um, you know,
basically a solveny to balance sheet for
an insurer in Europe, you have to own
almost 65 to 70% of your assets need to
be sovereign bonds. That's just too
large an amount and it's very very
challenging and difficult to to to
purchase and to hold uh securitized
product uh assetbased securities which
have proven to be a very good tool for
insurance companies and other financial
services firms in the US. Uh it's good
for dispersing risks risk and it's good
for versus corporate uh purchases. So I
I think something like that securitized
products would be a very easy um and
important move to make. I think sadly
many of us just conditioned by
experience, conditioned to be
disappointed by Europe.
>> Are we allowed to be disappointed? I
keep thinking about what Howard Mark
said after uh they announced the regime
of tariffs and he said the US is still
the best place to invest, but it's less
of a best place to invest. And so you
start looking at other places and
saying, "Yeah, there's hair on this.
They're not going to get their act
together, but at least there's some
investment and we might as well
diversify." And I wonder how much that's
driving people to like what they're
seeing even when there still is a lot of
skepticism.
>> Jim, I I I would say they they they've
looked around. They still come back to
the US. Strongest, largest, deepest
market in the world, greatest economy,
rule of law, unbelievable banking
system, uh creativity, intellectual
capital. Um it it's it's the place to
invest.
>> That fan like a
>> he's running.
>> Sounded like a politician speech, didn't
it?
>> Yeah. Maybe for mayor.
>> Yeah.
>> He's still diversified. Run, Jim. Jim
Zelter of Apollo. Jim, thank you, sir.
You don't want anything to do with that.
Up next, a man who will want to engage
on that topic. Congressman French as Fed
Governor Lisa Kirk keeps her job for
now. That's next. This is Bloomberg.
[Music]
Economic data about 60 minutes away.
Equity futures positive here by a third
of 1% on the S&P. On the NASDAQ 100 up
by a quarter in the bond market, 2-year,
10-year, and 30-year bond yield settling
down. We're down about a basis point,
the front end to 355. But check this
out. In Europe, Italy versus France. 348
on French debt, 348 on Italian debt. The
convergence, if you go back to the Euro
zone debt crisis, this was 4 percentage
points. That was the spread between the
two. Italy trading over France. And now
these two trading right in line with
each other. Do you remember that line
about hard men making easy times? Hard
makes markets make tough leaders. Tough
leaders make easy times. Easy markets
make weak leaders. Weak leaders make
hard times. That's the situation in
Europe over the last 10 years.
>> That's pure poetry, John. It just rolled
off the tongue. I mean, there's this
question here of whether France has what
it needs to pull its act together at a
time when their borrowing costs actually
exceeded Italy's for a brief second
yesterday. and some people are saying
it's because of a role in these
technicalities. Nonetheless, uh the
reality is stark for France and right
now there are protests that are gearing
up across uh Paris to protest some of
the cutbacks from Beiru who already is
out as prime minister. So a very
difficult moment to really understand
exactly what the political response
mechanism is is going to be.
>> Yeah, I think the thing I'd like to
emphasize this morning is is less of
what's going on in France and more of
what's happened in Italy. In Greece,
they went through the hard times. The
leaders had to make the tough decisions.
That's why things are so much easier now
compared to say France. France had
problems 10 years ago and the markets
gave them a pass. And guess what?
Leaders became weak. Didn't do enough to
address the issues. Where are we 10
years later? Big problems. That's the
issue we've got at play now. So, you're
going to invest 10 years out in France
because you think that they're going to
get their act together and take the
lessons of Italy and
>> I don't know if we're at the point where
markets are hard enough to make leaders
strong enough to make the kind of
decisions we need to make to make times
easier.
>> You know, it's a good point. It's what a
lot of people are wondering. This game
of chicken between markets and
politicians and at what point is the
pain in bond markets enough just for
some sort of action and it seems like
based on the uh protests, some of the
ramifications, not there yet.
>> That was enough of that. It's on the
edge of Joe Rogan, wasn't it? Okay.
French yields this morning up by a basis
point or so to 348. Two hours away from
the opening power. Let's get you some
morning movers with Yahara. Hey yhara.
>> Hi John. With this massive rise in
Oracle shares up more than 30% in the
pre-market. It is set to add about $200
billion to its market cap. That would
mean it would be the 10th most valuable
member of the S&P 500. And that is all
thanks to a very bullish outlook from
this company. Its booked revenue is up
$359%
from the same time a year ago, climbing
to $455
billion in the latest quarter. And that
is thanks to massive cloud deals with
the likes of Nvidia, Tik Tok, and Open
AI just underscoring the strong demand
for compute power. And we stick with
tech, but this stock is moving in the
other direction. synopsis is down 23%
as US export restrictions weigh on its
China business. No surprise there. That
is because this is a company that
provides tools to de to to design
advanced semiconductors, putting them
squarely in the crosshairs of
Washington's efforts to curb China's
access. And those measures have been on
and off again, creating uncertainty for
this company and its customers. And we
end on the original meme stop meme stock
gametock up nearly 11% after reporting a
big jump in sales more than 20% compared
to the same time last year and that was
thanks to a boom in hardware sales
because during this time was when the
Nintendo Switch 2 came out and as we all
know that flew off the shelves. John
>> Yahara thank you. Thanks for the update.
More from Yihara in the next hour. On
our radar this morning, some of our top
stories. President Donald Trump asking
the EU to impose 100% tariffs on China
and India in order to push Russia into
negotiations with Ukraine. The White
House saying it will match any tariffs
imposed by the EU on the two countries.
Elsewhere, the Senate Banking Committee
voting today on Steven Min's nomination
for Federal Reserve Governor. The move
likely setting him up to be confirmed
before next week's FOMC meeting. And
finally, Apple shares slipping after the
unveiling of the new iPhone 17 at its
annual event in a key change. The
company swapping out the iPhone Plus for
the iPhone Air, which Apple says is its
thinnest ever.
>> Some of the commentary from the likes of
Samsung and Google were savage. That's
all I can say. The advertising, the
counter advertising of that's it, that's
all you've got. What I thought was the
most interesting is that prices didn't
go up on any of these products except
for the highest end. What this
highlights to me is an awareness of a
pushing back in price even as they have
their heroin chic phones. They're really
ultra skinny phones uh that are the
iPhones 17. Some positive reviews, some
questions around battery life. The
bigger question is this wasn't a big
enough innovation to really turn the
need to really turn the dial.
>> What was the innovation? Cosmic Orange
iPhone. It's a little bit thinner, has a
better battery life, which every single
iPhone that comes out should have a
better battery life. I mean, this just
does this really make you want to go
line up and get a new iPhone.
>> This is not a moment for hardware, is
it? This is meant to be the moment for
software. Address the issues. And you're
not seeing the incremental developments
that people want to see in order for
them to upgrade. We'll catch up with Dan
Ies later this morning. Dan's been
talking about a super cycle of upgrades
for years now and we haven't seen it.
>> Yeah. And the question is, can they
innovate at the WWDC, the uh developer
conference to really put forward
something like a phone or a robot like
we were talking about yesterday? Uh
because is it still the phone that is
the device that is the hardware that's
really going to turn the dial? They also
were uh putting out there some Apple
watches that have better tracking
devices for your sleep and other things
that some of us neglect.
>> I like the headphones. You see what the
headphones can do? Real time
translation. you speak back and then you
get the translation on the phone for the
person you're talking to when you're
abroad. I thought that was pretty cool.
>> Do you think that we're ever going to
learn language or that our kids are
going to learn language in school or do
you think that they're just going to be
able to translate it?
>> I thought about that yesterday. I was
looking at this playing out and I just
thought it it's slicker if you walk into
I think the video was from a florist.
Did you see this video? I think she
walked into a florist. Isn't it slicker
and just smoother just to be able to
speak the language?
>> Yeah, very much so.
>> Instead of holding up a phone with the
text coming up.
>> Yeah. Although I've been in situations
where that would
>> unless they have the headphones too.
>> Oh. And then everyone just phones and we
just walk around with those
>> again. We just become robots.
>> Yeah. With white AirPods in our ears.
Okay. Let's turn back to Washington.
Federal Reserve Governor Lisa Kirk
staying on the job after a judge
temporarily blocked President Trump from
removing her. Congressman French Hill,
chairman of the House Financial
Committee on Financial Services joins us
now for more. Congressman Hill, welcome
to the program, sir. got a lot to get
through and I just wanted to start with
the independence of the Federal Reserve
and the role that your committees got to
play as this spat continues to build
down in Washington.
Well, good morning, Jonathan. Great to
be with you. Uh, as you know, I've
spoken out many times about the
importance of the independence of the
Fed and so has uh my colleague across
the capital, Tim Scott, the chairman of
the Senate Banking Committee. But
because we fully support Fed
independence doesn't mean the Fed's
immune from criticism. And every
president in my adult life has been very
uh vocal about criticizing the Fed at
one time or another. So uh I don't think
Fed independence is in question.
>> When it comes to though what could
actually happen in terms of financial
stability, we have Fed Governor Lisa
Cook's lawyer saying that the president
was unlawful in removing Governor Cook
and said its vague allegations would
endanger the stability of our financial
system and undermine the rule of law. Do
you agree with that assessment?
>> Well, I think there's some hyperbole in
there. Lisa Cook has been accused of
effectively mortgage fraud. Those are
significant allocations for someone
allegations for someone who is a
financial regulator, but I think they
need to be adjudicated. I mean, she
needs her due process, her day in court
to prove that in fact that's not the
case. And I think that's underway right
now. And that's again something I've
said in in recent days.
>> Do you think the president should have
waited for the courts to play out in
terms of this investigation for her for
these allegations to actually become
charges and and a conviction to then
take up this idea to fire her for cause?
>> Look, the president's entitled to his
own opinion. He has access to the facts
that probably I don't. So, he's made his
decision about it. But my judgment is uh
that's a serious allegation and if true
it's certainly potentially a
disqualifying uh allegation and charge
for someone who's involved very much
intimately involved in the federal
regulatory process.
>> Taking a step back though, do you agree
with the Treasury Secretary on resetting
the Fed's mission?
>> Well, you know, I've believed that for a
long time. I believe the Fed should have
a single mandate, which is price
stability. The biggest, most punishing
tax on the American people, our
citizens, is inflation. And inflation's
caused by too much money chasing too few
goods. And we've had a dramatic example
of that by Fed policy during the
pandemic and the Biden administration's
fiscal policy in combination. Very
punishing 40-year highs in inflation.
So, I believe we need fewer mandates. I
mean, I think we need that monetary
policy focused on price stability. Uh,
and uh, again, that's why I set up a
task force in this Congress to review
the Fed's monetary policy since 2008,
review the Fed's uh, role in financial
regulation and supervision, and to make
sure that we're also taking steps to
make sure our Treasury security market
is resilient. All this work is led by
Frank Lucas of Oklahoma, and we're deep
in the in that process. So, I think
taking a strong look at the Fed's
monetary policy and their governance,
it's an important factor, and I agree
with the Treasury Secretary on that.
>> Well, inflation has not been below 2%
for uh more than four years at this
point, and we're still talking about 50
basis point rate cuts, maybe 75 basis
points of rate cuts this year. Do you
think that that's premature if there
should be a single mandate Federal
Reserve that looks f solely on
inflation?
Well, I think this is the tough decision
they have coming up and we've seen a
softness in the economy during the whole
year in terms of uh consumers ability to
purchase uh the jobs reports that we've
gotten. This is why the the Fed chairman
I think consistently has said let's look
at the data look at look at our data uh
assessment and the forecasts associated
with it and also make our own judgment
about whether we're at the neutral rate
for pricing because we don't want to see
the economy stall out and then go into
stagflation particularly when you're
right about inflation getting close to
two but not below two and not right at
two. But when you look at inflation
expectations, they seem to be more
closely anchored at two and that should
give the Fed some confidence as they
entertain their decision in the next few
days.
>> Chair Hill, I know you and your
colleagues almost just recently got back
from summer recess, but October 1st is
fast approaching and the Trump
administration is weighing and pushing
for this idea for a stop gap funding
measure to keep the government open um
through January 31st. Would you be on
board with that?
Well, we're talking about it among
ourselves and obviously with our friends
in the Senate. We've each passed three
uh appropriations bills in the Senate
and the House. I think it would be great
to go to conference on those bills and
then pursue uh get those enacted into
law and then pursue a a CR that's a
short a shorter term CR would be my
advice for consideration so that we can
get this work done. We're very close.
Both the House and Senate are processing
these bills. We have the Republicans in
charge of the House and the Senate and
the White House. So, we ought to get
together, find our topline number, and
get our work done this year.
>> Congressman, before you go, the
important stuff. Arkansas football razor
backs going to get done this year.
>> Uh really enjoyed watching the
quarterback uh come uh and have his
great game against Arkansas State. This
was the first time in Arkansas history
that Arkansas State played the
University of Arkansas in Little Rock at
the famous 1949 War Memorial Stadium. It
was a fantastic day. He looks pretty
good. We play Old Miss this weekend, so
that'll be the first SEC game and that's
where the rubber hits the road.
>> Saturday 7:00 p.m. Looking forward to
it, sir. Thanks for being here,
Congressman French.
>> You still need to come to a Razerback
game.
>> I've got to make it happen. I know this
year it's got to happen. Thank you, sir.
SEC football.
>> All the best.
>> Thank you. Appreciate it. Got to make a
game happen this year.
>> Team trip. I'm not going to do like the
team cruise we've talked about a million
times. I will do a trip down to some
kind of SEC football game before the
year is out.
>> So, you'll be there. I'll go to Got to
be Arkansas.
>> Arkansas or Old Miss this weekend.
>> I can see you there. I feel like you
have like sort of a southern sort of
undertone. I I could see that
>> possibly. I think I relate to that. I
think it's the probably the closest
thing in this country to European
football.
>> Oh, because of the small
>> football. Totally. the connection with
your team.
>> Yeah, that's what you do on the weekend.
>> I can't connect with the NFL at all.
Just the idea a franchise can move from
city to city, state to state, just
doesn't speak to me.
>> The fact that the New York team actually
plays in New Jersey bothers you. I just
can't get my head around that. All
right, let's get you an update on
stories elsewhere this morning before I
offend someone else with your Bloomberg
brief. Here's Vonnie Quinn. Hey, Vonyie.
>> Hey, John. Thank you. President Donald
Trump said he is very unhappy about
Israel's strike on Hamas targets in
Doha. Trump said he learned of the
attack too late to stop it. The
president spoke with both Israel Prime
Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and Qatari
leaders after the strike and assured
Qatar that such an attack would not
happen again.
JP Morgan and Barklay is among banks
bracing for potentially hundreds of
millions of dollars in combined losses
from loans tied to subprime auto
lenderricolor.
Sources telling us here at Bloomberg the
banks are warehouse lenders forricolor
and are looking into whether the
collateral for the lines was double
pledged.
Noisk will cut some 9,000 jobs globally,
11% of its workforce after slashing its
profit forecast for the third time this
year. This as it fights to recover lost
market share from Eli Liy in the obesity
drug market. The pharma giant plans to
save $1.3 billion by the end of next
year and to reinvest in new drug
development and sales. And that's your
Bloomberg brief. John
>> Vonyie, thank you. More from Vonyie in
the next hour about 30 minutes away. Up
next, phantom inflation.
>> They're kind of worried about like the
phantom inflation expectation story or,
you know, the threat of potential
inflation coming from tariffs. I mean, I
think those are really secondary
considerations at this point given um
what we're seeing in the jobs market.
>> In just a moment, we'll catch up with
Lafy Karui of Goldman Sachs from New
York City this morning. Good morning.
You're watching Bloomberg TV.
[Music]
Session highs on the S&P 500, up a third
of 1%. Likewise on the NASDAQ 100 this
morning, coming into Wednesday at record
highs. Up a third on the S&P, up a third
on the NASDAQ. Under surveillance this
morning as we countd down to PPI and
CPI, phantom inflation.
they're kind of worried about like the
phantom inflation expectation story or
you know the threat of potential
inflation coming from tariffs. I mean I
think those are really secondary
considerations at this point given um
what we're seeing in the jobs market. So
to me I think the risk is that the Fed
ultimately won't deliver um as much as
they should and that kind of reinforces
the slowing that we've already seen.
>> So here's the latest this morning.
Investors looking ahead to a double dose
of inflation data due out in the next 24
hours with just one week to go until the
Fed's next decision. Liy Kui of Goldman
Sachs joins us around the table for
more. Lafy, good morning.
>> Good morning.
>> Got a lot to talk about in your world in
credit markets and broader fixed income.
Let's just start with the Federal
Reserve a week away. Neil Data of Remac
the inflation phantom inflation. He
wants this Fed to lean into the weakness
in the labor market. Where are you and
the team at? Yes, I think that would be
our view too, which is that reaction
function is definitely more tilted to
the towards the weakness in the labor
market as opposed to potential upside,
you know, risks from from inflation. I
think 25 basis points is pretty much a
done deal at this point. We expect them
to follow suit with another two hikes in
October and December and then two more
in 2026.
uh now a lot of that is in the price and
so I would say relative to the last 6
months uh the riskreward in that front
end of the curve feels probably the most
balanced to me at the moment.
>> Do you think that what you're seeing in
the individual companies that you invest
in the sort of uh credit aspect of this
verify the weakness that we see in some
of the numbers about the labor market
about the underlying economy
>> to some extent yes but not a lot to be
honest with you. I think whether you
talk to investors or corporate issuers,
the message that you're getting is that
we're happy or we're comfortable with
this weak but not too weak equilibrium
so long as it comes with monetary easing
so long as the uh we remain far away
from the recession threshold. And then
you have some of the offsetting
tailwinds kicking in later into the year
and that's really expansionary fiscal
policy and deregulation. And so most
folks are actually willing to look
through the current weakness and sort
of, you know, focus on 2026 and and I
think that's the right approach because
you will see a growth acceleration in
2026.
>> Does this justify how tight spreads are,
how much people are buying credit with
the hope of that reaceleration.
>> I mean, look, credit generically, credit
is an anti-Russian asset class. You
know, when you buy credit, you're owning
a put. And so, you're a lot more
sensitive to downside risk than upside
risk. I think the comfort that everyone
has is that you're still far away from
that recession threshold. And so yes, to
some extent it is justified in my view.
>> When you talk about deregulation and the
fiscal input coming from Washington,
where exactly do you see that?
>> Well, I mean on the fiscal side, you
got, you know, tax policy is going to
come.
>> But is this really an extension of
policy, isn't it? What's new?
>> To a large extent, yes. But you do have
a little bit of a growth impulse. And
then look, growth has slowed down this
year too. So the starting level is
actually lower than 20 and 24. I think,
you know, we're sort of oscillating
around 1 and a.5% here. We will
probably, you know, revert back to trend
growth in 2026.
>> Coming into 2025, I still remember your
outlook and you talked about the
valuation proposition in credit being
some of the worst you've seen for years
and years and years. And as we sit here
today, spreads just got tighter and
tighter and tighter. You scratching your
head at all about what you've seen so
far? No, I think look, we've been range
out. Uh, you know, the range, if I take
the investment grade Bloomberg index as
an example, the range has been 75 to 90
basis points. I still think that the
risk of a valuation melt up, which is
something that you increasingly hear. So
spreads going to literally uncharted
territory is very very low in credit. If
anything, you know, you should see some
M&A supply kicking in in the next, you
know, couple months. So from a technical
standpoint, it won't feel as imbalanced
as as it is today. But I still feel
pretty good about that. I think look as
a spread investor you have to be
cognizant that valuations are not great.
>> So the trajectory of benchmark rates
seems to be heading downward. We are
going to get some Fed easing. The bigger
question for a lot of investors and Jim
Zelter of Apollo was on just earlier
saying he's concerned about inflation
and he thinks over the longer term if
you cut now at a time where there still
is enough resilience and potentially
some of the impulse that are coming
through uh later this year and early
next you could get a really sticky
inflation. How much is that a risk
scenario to what you're just putting out
there?
>> It's always a risk. I mean, our baseline
view is that tariffs uh you know, in the
end are sort of a a price level effect.
So, you know, think of them as like a
vit transitory. I know, you know, that's
sort of a but uh but that but more
importantly, we don't think that will
translate into structurally higher
inflation expectations. But of course,
you cannot rule out that risk. I think
the Fed has gotten to that same view,
too. It's really less about spot
inflation which will mechanically
increase on the back of tariffs and more
about inflation expectations and at the
moment those will remain anchored. I
think that's the view.
>> There's also been a big debate about the
US versus Europe and that's something
that we were talking about with Jim. The
idea that the US is still the cleanest
shirt and a dirty laundry bin. I'm
rolling my eyes because everybody says
these cliches. Uh but at the same time
you might want to increase your exposure
to Europe just by virtue of having that
additional hedge. Do you think that's
gone too far especially with the
political instability?
>> Uh you're seeing it in the data. I think
there's no question that the marginal
dollar and I would emphasize that this
is about the marginal dollar. So the new
dollar that you're allocating is getting
allocated in a more balanced way and we
see it on the private side. If you look
at the data, Europe is definitely
attracting more capital. Would I go as
far as saying that we're on the verge of
a massive rotation away from the US back
into Europe? Probably not. I'll give you
a very concrete example. Look at
leverage finance markets. In the US,
it's four and a half trillion. If you
add up high yield bonds, broadly
syndicated loans, private credit. In
Europe, it barely exceeds a trillion.
So, in terms of size, in terms of depth,
in terms of fragmentation, I do think
that the US still scores way better than
Europe.
>> At least talking about sources of
demand. Can we talk about sources of
supply and some of the issuance shifting
over
>> to Europe? What are they called? Reverse
Yankees.
>> Yeah.
>> What's going on with that kind of debt
issuance? I you know there's a variety
of narratives that you're probably
hearing. To me the biggest driver of
that surge in reverse Yankee issuance is
really the willingness of large
multinational corporations to diversify
their currency mix. Full stop. I don't
think it's about sort of the yield
differential between the two. A lot of
these companies actually do have a big
chunk of their revenues that come from
the euro area. You're just looking for
ways to diversify a little bit and and I
think that's what's happening. But you
know reverse Yankee issuance is on a a
record high pace at the moment. It's
unbelievable the amount of supply we've
seen from US issuers over in Europe
Europe.
>> Yeah. And what Latia is saying is it's
more of a currency hedge than it is
anything else, which is really
interesting. The idea that if you're
selling into uh into a continent, you
might as well keep the currency the
same, especially given the dollar
weakening trend.
>> Seen some serious weakness. Euro dollar
back up at 117 this morning.
>> Are we on 120 watch? That's what I keep
wondering.
>> We've been on 120 watch consistently.
The ECB pushed back against that. Have
you noticed that? And since then, it's
kind of been like this ceiling for that
currency pair.
>> Yeah. whether they continue actually
mentioning it. They never mention the
currency until it hits close to that 120
mark and then they start getting yippy.
I I think that the interesting thing to
me is at what point do people stop
traveling to Europe because of the
currency?
>> That's the interesting thing exclusively
to you. I think that's feels very very
personal.
>> I'm just wondering you know at what
point does that affect the supply demand
dynamic when it comes to tourism?
>> Serious issues. Let's book a guest.
Let's make it happen. Lia, it's good to
see you. Thank you, sir. Liy Karui of
Goldman Sachs. I'm right there with you.
>> Come on. You think about that, other
people do too.
>> The hard-hitting journalism for the
summer of 2026. Coming up next, Steve
Packpuri of Deutsche Bank, Dan Ives of
Wetbush, Seth Carpenter of Morgan
Stanley, Lisa Hornby of Schroeders. The
economic data in America 34 minutes
away.
[Music]
There's a huge difference between what's
going on in Main Street and what's
happening on Wall Street.
>> The general health of the economy, it's
broken down.
>> We're expecting a prolonged period of
elevated inflation.
>> We have a eye on the inflation data, but
the one data point is not going to, I
think, derail the path.
>> I don't think inflation is getting away
from the Fed, which is why I think they
should be focusing more on the growth
side of the economy. This is Bloomberg
Surveillance with Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa
Abramowitz, and An Marie Hordern.
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning to you all.
The third hour of Bloomberg Surveillance
starts right now, and your scores look
like this. A two-day winning run on the
S&P 500. 5 days on the NASDAQ futures up
again by a third of 1%. In the bond
market, twos, tens, and 30s. 2-year bond
yields very close to the lows of the
year, just north of 350 this morning at
35479. Yields down a single basis point.
We are 30 minutes away from the economic
data. The next stop for the big economic
debate, PPI at 8:30 Eastern time.
>> Does it matter? I think that that is the
key question. How high does that number
have to be for it to matter at a time
where there seems to be an inflation
independent to an extent Federal Reserve
that is squarely focused on the labor
market? Yesterday's labor market
revisions only underscored the sense
that there is enough of a weakening in
the employment sphere that they really
can look past some short-term inflation.
The decision is a week away, a week
today. And this is what the Treasury
Secretary Scott Besson's got to say
about it. If the Fed is data dependent
and the data is bad, makeup rate cuts
are needed. 25's not going to cut it.
The administration wants more than that.
>> They want more than that because they're
looking at these revisions and they're
saying if the Fed had had this type of
data earlier, they would have been
cutting sooner. So, they should be
making up for the lost time. When the
facts change, I change my mind. That's
the Treasury Secretary said yesterday on
Fox News. All of this though is going to
be so much more interesting I think
because of the personnel. We're gonna
have Steven Myron potentially today
clearing a key Senate hurdle. Lisa Cook,
a judge last night said she could stay
at her job. Are they going to be there
to vote? And likely they're going to be
doubs. So they're going to be voting for
a Ray Cup. But whether or not it's 25 or
50, that remains to be seen.
>> If we do have a Governor Myron walking
into that meeting next week, he can ask
a very simple question. If we knew then
what we know now about payrolls growth,
where would rates be? Would they be
lower than they are now? And the answer
for a lot of people might well be yes,
which raises the question, I think about
25 or 50. I think some people will be
pushing that issue at next week's
meeting.
>> If Steven Myron is there, he certainly
will. Will Chris Waller, that will be an
interesting question. Will Mickey Bowman
another potential contender to become
the next Fed chair. Will the market
start to price this in? And at what
point do we worry about inflation once
more? I mean, really, again, we're
talking about this all ahead of PPI
coming out today. a question of how much
we have the ability to for companies
have the ability to pass long price
increases and then CPI how much
consumers are eating it tomorrow. These
are going to be important lynch pins to
understand the longerterm trajectory for
the Federal Reserve.
>> Shouldn't change the conversation. Not
because I believe it shouldn't change
the conversation. Shouldn't change the
conversation because of the way the
chairman has laid out the reaction
function of the Federal Reserve at
Jackson Hole. When you come out and say
this is basically going to be a one-off
but not all at once. You're basically
saying even if we get hot prints between
now and year end, that's not going to
stop me from maintaining a focus on the
labor market.
>> Yeah. And this is a reason why a lot of
people are seeing a Fed cutting rates
and they're believing what the Fed is
saying and they're not necessarily
selling long-term treasuries. That's one
thing that has given a lot of people
confidence. My question is, what is the
reaction function next week from the
markets to any kind of outsized rate cut
or an indication that they're going to
continue to cut? Because ultimately,
it's fine if Fed chair Jay Powell says
it. Does the market endorse this idea of
a one-time kind of price adjustment?
>> At the moment, just about 30-year bond
yields back it away from 5% over the
previous two weeks. We're back down to
about 473. Coming up this hour, Deepak
Puri of Deutsche Bank as stocks trade at
all-time highs. will speak to Dan Ies of
Wedbush as Apple falls following its new
iPhone unveiling and Seth Carpenter of
Morgan Stanley as we break down the
latest inflation data. We begin this
hour with stock steady as traders await
a key week of economic data. Deepak Puri
of Deutsche Bank writing the following.
Given signs of a weakening labor market
and a moderating economic outlook, we
expect five cuts until September 2026.
Deepak joins us now for more. Deepac,
good morning.
>> Good morning.
>> Good to see you, sir. How quickly do we
get that kind of move? Do you think it's
five cuts spread out evenly or could
they just move say 50 right now? Let's
go.
>> I think the bar for a 50 right now is
pretty high. So I I would be more
inclined to say it's a bit more spread
out. Maybe two three rate cuts for the
rest of the year and then one cut per
quarter for 2026. This is going back
going to September 2026. And the reason
I say the bar is pretty high for 50
basis point because you know we cannot
be focused too much on a lagged release
on the labor markets which is a lagging
indicator to begin with. So I think the
markets are not going to be focused too
much. Yes, from a Federal Reserve
perspective maybe it's going to have a
lot more discussion and that'll be you
know available to us when the minutes
are released. But I think in the near
term, I still believe given the
inflation backdrop, the fact that the
the assessment of where the tariff rates
are going to hit and really base upon
what would be the impact of the pass
through of those tariffs on inflation,
it's still a little bit TBD. So I think
it'll be pretty much premature to start
cutting aggressively at this point.
>> If we hadn't had Jackson Hole, I think a
lot of people would agreed with you. But
the language the chairman used with
regards to inflation has got a lot of
people thinking that he's just going to
ignore those hot prints. Is that the
wrong interpretation of what we heard in
that speech?
>> I I I would tend to agree with that. I I
think what Jay Powell said in Jackson
Hole is saying yes, we eliminating
average inflation target. It's now
inflation target of 2%. Having said
that, inflation is still the mechanism
for full employment. You have to look at
full employment through the prism
through the lens of inflation. So first
and foremost, yes, for the time being,
if you're looking at uh you know, the
federal dual policy mandate, maybe labor
markets are gaining more credence, but
overall it hasn't really said that
inflation is not going to be part of
this analysis. I I feel the markets may
be um you know, overestimating the
doubbishness of that speech.
>> If the Fed does cut five times by
September, does that essentially
underwrite risk assets? U to a large
extent yes but we have been saying that
don't pause don't fear the pause fear
the cuts and the reason we we're saying
that Lisa is because when the Fed starts
to cut rates a lot depends on why they
are cutting rates are they cutting rates
to tame inflation or they're cutting
rates because they feel that the labor
markets are declining so rapidly that
it's going to start having an impact on
overall economic activity and I think
that sort of analysis is to be
determined in the in the sense that for
the time being it sees that the labor
market is gaining more momentum in their
thinking. um if that remains somewhat
muted meaning the second half of the
year is the economic activity is
somewhat of a a soft landing let's say
before it reacelerates in 2026 I think
you'd see a bid up in risky assets and
not only that's one of the reasons there
are three or four other reasons why I
feel you know stocks and risky assets
could do well you know you look at the
capex spending you look at the earnings
growth the the strength of the balance
sheet of both households and
corporations plus the fact that
eventually you're going to see this rate
cut regime. All these talk about a
positive risk scenario. So you don't
want to be overly bearish at this point
in the in the cycle.
>> Based on what you're describing, it
raises the question, can you have your
cake and eat eat it too, right? I mean,
can you have bonds rallying at the same
time that stocks are rallying on the
heels of Fed rate cuts or do you
essentially get stocks doing well, sell
the long end and by God do not hold any
dollars?
>> Yeah, I mean that has been the case. If
you look at the last 15 years, there
have been a lot of time frames where
both bonds and stocks have rallied.
Those correlations that we used to have,
there has been a breakdown. And you can
also see it in 2022 where both stocks
and bonds really fared miserably. So I
think the fact that uh stocks rallying
means that the bonds couldn't rally is
probably a misnomer at this point. We
have seen the evidence to the contrary.
How uncomfortable is it given the
picture Lisa's talking about with the
fact that we are really in a weakening
labor market going back to May it's sub
30,000 jobs added to the economy a month
on average. Yeah, I think that's one
point of the labor markets that is a bit
more um you know concerning. But if you
look at a lot of others, you know, look
at the in initial claims data, the high
frequency data on on labor market, that
is still not at least to me telling that
the labor market's in a perpetual
decline here. I think we need to take
into account that post pandemic the data
is noisy with regards to labor markets.
So, I'm not saying labor markets are not
um as, you know, they're not as strong
as they used to be, but they're
definitely not suggesting to me that we
are in a in a recession or in an eminent
recession whereby to our earlier
conversation, the Fed needs to step in
aggressively.
>> So, then why is the Fed cutting if
inflation is still above their 2%
target?
>> Well, they have to do a preemptive
insurance rate cut because even though
what they don't know is the trajectory
of what the impact of labor market
softness is going to be on on
consumption. And I think that's where
that's the linkage that they are trying
to you know give the market some sense
of relief and comfort that we are there
you know we don't want yes we are we
would like to tame the inflation but for
the timing our focus is directly on the
labor markets
>> 12 month price target 6800 on the S&P
>> that's correct
>> that's very small upside with about 125
basis points of rate cuts why is that
move not sufficient enough to generate
more returns in equities
>> well the the sentiment positioning the
the fact that we're looking at a
valuation level that's above 23 times,
you know, so the the argument that
earnings can only pull the the stock
market up to a certain level. You also
need a PE expansion and that's difficult
to see at at these levels. So I think
you you want to be at least positive as
I said earlier, you don't want to be
only bearish, but I don't think it's
also a a very high conviction with
regards to all you know uh all chips in
place. I think any sort of a pullback
makes a big case for the markets to go
up and we'll be a a buyer at that point.
>> You've been in this business a long
time. Have you ever been as confused as
to how to handle an environment as the
one we're in right now?
>> Um you know there were confusing times
obviously you know at 2009 2011 right
around the pandemic. So there have been
times that are give you conflicting data
signals, right? But I zoom out and look
at the the way the stock markets react
um in a longer time frame. And I think
uh we all know stock markets and real
economy are two different things. Uh
when I look at the money supply, when I
look at the financial conditions, when I
look at the strength of corporations to
my earlier points, it's really difficult
to be overly bearish. you know, yes, the
real economy, you know, one could argue,
you know, half of the households are
doing great, maybe the other half are
not, but I think the the momentum with
which the markets are going, the drivers
are a lot different than the real
economy.
>> Deep pack, it's good to see you.
Likewise, it's
>> been too long. Come back in soon.
>> We'll do
>> appreciate your time. Thank you. Deepac
Puri there of Deutsche Bank. Let's get
you an update on stories worldwide this
morning with your Bloomberg brief. Let's
cross over to Vonnie Quinn for more.
Hey, Vonnie.
>> Hey, John. Thank you. President Donald
Trump told European officials he's
willing to impose new tariffs on India
and China to push President Putin to
negotiate with Ukraine, but only if EU
nations do so as well. Other potential
measures discussed include further
sanctions on Russia's shadow fleet of
oil tankers and restrictions on its
banks and major oil companies.
Poland shot down drones in its airspace
during a Russian air strike on Ukraine.
The Polish military calling it a quote
active aggression. It's the first time
Poland has shot down military aircraft
over its airspace since the start of
Russia's war on Ukraine. Now, Russia
saying just moments ago it is ready for
consultation with Poland on the drones.
Nepal's prime minister resigned on a
second day of violent protests in the
South Asian nation. The Press Trust of
India says KP Sharma Ali stepped down
after hundreds of demonstrators stormed
his office. The unrest stemmed from a
government ban on social media platforms
which has since been lifted. And that is
your Bloomberg brief. John.
>> Hey Vonyie. Thank you. Appreciate it.
More from Vonyie in about 30 minutes
time. Up next on the program, the
morning calls. Plus, we'll catch up with
Dan Ies of Wed Bush as Apple falls
following it new iPhone unveiling. That
conversation up next live from New York
City this morning. Good morning.
[Music]
We definitely see more lingering
inflation. When's the last time any one
of us bought something in the last year?
and you said, "Wow, that was cheaper
than a year ago." It has not happened. I
do believe there's greater inflation and
companies are having a a much more
challenging time passing that along.
>> Just a fantastic exchange with Jim Zer,
the president of Apollo Global
Management a little bit early this
morning. Catch that full exchange out on
Bloomberg.com. And if you are a terminal
subscriber, it will be on the terminal a
little bit later this morning. Let's get
to some of the price action as we count
you down to the economic data. 14
minutes away for PPI. Equity futures
positive by a third of 1% up a third
also on the NASDAQ 100. That's the price
action. Let's get you some morning
calls. First up, TD Cow and upgrading
Nike to buy, citing market share gains
and better management execution. Next
up, Bank of America upgrading Oracle to
buy, saying it's clearly capturing more
AI infrastructure share. That stock is
absolutely surging. And finally,
Evercore raising its price target on
Apple to 260, saying its new design
could help reinvigorate its user base.
Sticking with Apple, it shares falling
after its latest product lineup failed
to impress investors. Joining us now,
Bloomberg's senior tech editor, Dana
Walman. Dana, welcome back to the
program. You gave us the preview. Let's
have the review. Is this going to
invigorate the user base?
>> I think just I'm going to be the voice
of the consumer here and also just uh
speaking for what I know about consumer
behavior. But I do think that this will
be a compelling lineup um for consumers
heading into the holiday season. Apple
really did an endto-end refresh um
across its lineup, not just its phones,
but also its smart watches and um kept
prices largely in line with last year's
models. And I think none of this is lost
on the average consumer. I think
consumers these days are savvy enough to
know that um these are not just
iterative chip upgrades or processor
upgrades. They can tell when the phone
looks different or when the watch looks
different. And the fact that the prices
are the same as last year, I think will
give a lot of people permission to go
ahead and maybe um take the plunge on
the upgrade that they had perhaps been
shying away from or holding off on.
>> You know what the push back is from
investors, Dana? It's not what it looks
like, it's what you can do with it and
why we didn't hear enough yesterday on
AI and new features and the future. Were
you disappointed by that?
>> I wasn't expecting anything new on AI.
Apple does typically sort of bifurcate
its updates on software and hardware
into distinct events. Um, June is the
developers conference and the fall is
typically all about the hardware and
it's really it would would have been
really unusual of Apple to unveil a
surprise new feature that it hadn't
already been testing publicly in public
betas for months now. Um, now that said,
we do expect Apple to um reveal more in
the coming months, perhaps early next
year about its AI strategy and its AI
rollout. Um, but we were not expecting
any surprise new features that had not
previously been announced. The one that
we were on the lookout for and that we
did get was live language translation um
in the new AirPods Pro earbuds, but that
was it in terms of um expected AI
features.
>> Dana, appreciate the update. Thanks for
being here. Dana Wman there of
Bloomberg. The stock in the pre-market
down by something like 7/10en of 1% so
far this morning. Let's get the bullish
view on things. Dan out of Wedbush 270
price target outperform rating on shares
of Apple. Dan, join us now for more.
Dan, good morning.
>> Great to be here. You've sat here so
many times in September alongside us and
talked about the upgrade super cycle. It
hasn't happened. Is it about to happen
with this and why?
>> No. I mean I look this in those super
cycles we've talked about I mean they
definitely were disappointing, right? I
mean the reality I think this is one
where street expectations going in are I
think pretty soft relative to next year.
So when you think about on scale 110
this is probably going to be an eight
8.5. Look you do have over 300 million
that haven't upgraded their iPhone. Is
there going to be a huge catalyst here?
I think a lot of it's just pent-up
demand, especially in China. But the
reality is the elephant in the room,
it's AI. And I think that's when you
talk about what's going to truly drive
the stock, that's it. We've talked about
it. That that right now is is front and
center.
>> Before we get there, and we'll find out
more, I'm assuming later this year at
the WWDC. Uh there is the signal from
the fact that they didn't raise prices
on the phone significantly except for
the highest end phone. Does this suggest
that they're going to take it more on
margin especially given how much their
costs are increasing pretty much across
the board?
>> Yeah, I mean some small price increase.
Look, I think also the reality that's
why Cook, you know, played nice in the
sandbox with Trump, right? Because it's
very important in terms of India and
China make sure they do have some
exemptions when it comes to the tariffs.
But look, the reality is they cannot
raise prices significantly at this point
because the last thing you want is
churn, other competitive issues. You
have a phone that's, you know,
definitely an improvement, but nothing
that's jaw-dropping. And it all leads
the whole reason you own Apple. It's the
install base. I mean, it's all about
when they monetize the 1.5 billion
iPhones for
>> just jump in the install base. For a
long time, you've seen that as a source
of potential growth.
>> Isn't it about time to start seeing it
as a source of potential risk that
you've got this massive install base
that hasn't upgraded for a long, long
time? Don't we have to start questioning
whether they ever will and whether the
real risk here is they might actually go
and buy a different phone from someone
else?
>> Look, we've talked about that. That's
why we've been so I think you know
strong in our view like the t the clock
struck midnight in terms of them needing
to now goes back to AI because when you
talk about monetization and what keeps
people in the ecosystem and and what
really is the golden goose for
monetization it comes down to AI and the
reality is every Apple event the last
few years I feel like Michael J. Fox
back to the future, you know, and that's
been a big part of the problem relative
to the rest of tech when it comes to
embracing AI.
>> The install base is sick of waiting.
That is sort of a worry that a lot of
people have and Samsung right now and
Google are out there trying to troll
everybody who's been waiting for
something new and saying, "Haha, look
ours fold." Uh there's a question about
especially if they're getting a heads up
or if they're getting a head start on
the AI development of whether the
install base starts to leave. Aren't we
starting to see signs of that? Doesn't
that worry you? Look, I think it is a m
it's probably the stickiest install base
out there, right? In terms of just when
you think about Apple and and customers
that that really don't leave. I think
the worry is really around the
monetization and that's why we've said
like okay perplexity was really more to
see what happened with Google once DOJ
once they had that victory now I think
they walk down the aisle from some sort
of major partnership from a Gemini
perspective. But I think this is look
this is a critical time next six to nine
months for Apple to make sure you have
the AI strategy you don't lose customers
you have an upgrade cycle that you know
right now New York City cab drivers
bearish in Apple so I think that sets up
pretty positive relative there but it
comes down to AI innovation there's a
better chance me playing Ryder Cup Beth
Paige than that happening inside of
Apple it has come externally
>> Dan you mentioned Tim Cook playing nice
in the sandbox with Um, Trump, should he
go on the state visit next week when
Trump's bringing a bunch of tech
executives like Jensen Wang?
>> I think you get on that plan because I
mean, you know, you know it so well.
It's like he obviously got called out in
terms of Middle East to the right. You
have really the new trusted advisor
wearing the black leather jacket Jensen.
I mean, Cook needs to make sure he's not
on the outside looking in. And that's
why that, you know, when what we saw
last week in DC was also an important
moment, too. When you say that he's
playing nice in the sandbox when Lisa
was asking about pricing of iPhones,
he's constrained you think by the White
House and audience are one or you think
he's constrained by where the consumers
are right now. It has to meet them where
they are.
>> Yeah, I think it's a combo. But I think
the reality too is that raising prices
definitely is not the right thing to do
from a consumer perspective. But when it
comes to tariffs, that's also where like
the India look, they're essentially
doing a dance around, right? when it
comes to India and China tariff
exemptions obviously significantly
investing in the US but like we've
talked about like it's a fairy tale that
they'll ever make iPhone Pros in the US
again it goes back to like if you like
$3,000 iPhones we should make them in
New Jersey. So I just think that that's
going to continue to be something that's
in Asia despite obviously a lot of the
investments from an AI perspective in
the US.
>> You're a bullish guy. Let's just finish
on a really big name this morning,
Oracle. $225 billion plus of market cap
could be added to this company later on
this morning. We're higher by 32% in the
pre-market. What do you make of this
move?
>> I mean, it's a drop to mic from Saffra
and Ellison, right? Because the reality
is that it shows this AI revolution. You
as much as the haters and the skeptic
you look at points to me.
>> No, no, no, no, no. I'm saying, dude,
you're dude, you're a big supporter. I'm
saying like but but Lisa I think but but
I think the reality is that many that
are skeptical of maybe like some of the
growth you look at these numbers that
ARR number that that's a drop to mic and
I think what that shows the rest of tech
the rest of AI that's what we continue
to say it's 10:15 in the AI party was 9
p.m. and that party goes to 4:00 a.m.
>> It's an outfit worthy of the sock move.
It's good to see you. Thanks Dan.
>> Great to see you.
>> Appreciate it, sir. You got the distance
to play Beth Paige. You never know. It's
more of a short game. I don't have I
don't have Pharaoh's long, you know,
long.
>> I wish I wish I had that kind of
distance. Exactly. Like Maroy 350 kind
of stuff.
>> Exact Beth Paige Black that that tests
the the distance.
>> I'm very pro America. That's going to be
like the few days that I'm going to be
very pro Europe on this program.
>> I know.
>> Oh, but I'd
>> just You're going to have to let it go.
Just give me some space.
>> But again, the difference is Europe
doesn't have a guy named Scotty.
>> True. But we got a guy named Rory. And I
love
>> a pretty deep bench as well.
>> Oh, and Roy Royy's on a hot streak.
>> Okay, we'll talk more about this another
time when we're not on live TV. Dan,
thank you, sir. Appreciate it. Coming up
in just a moment, some economic data for
you. PPI just around the corner. We'll
catch up with Seth Carpenter of Morgan
Stanley. A lot to break down for this
point and the data point we get tomorrow
morning.
>> Yeah. And we keep talking about at what
point do we care about inflation once
again? PPI, how hot does it have to come
in and how much has to get translated to
the consumer?
>> Got tickets for that. I I will have to
>> basically you're looking for someone to
talk about because it's not going to be
us.
>> I mean I think going to a rider carp
with Pharaoh would be a peak moment for
me.
>> We'll make it happen. All right.
[Music]
>> The first of two inflation prints coming
right up. PPI just around the corner. 20
seconds away. CPI tomorrow morning, 24
hours and about 15 seconds away. Equity
futures on the S&P 500 positive here by
a third of 1% up on the Nasdaq by a
third of 1%. Also in the bond market,
these are the scores. 2-year, 10year,
and 30-year bond yields a little bit
lower at the front end and the 10-year
this morning. We're down about a basis
point. The 2-year 355 with your economic
data. Let's cross over to Mike McKe for
more. Good morning, Mike.
>> Good morning, John. We were expecting a
little bit of a decline in inflation and
that's what we got. uh producer prices
headline number on a month-over-month
basis down a tenth of a percent which
puts the year-over-year number at 2.6%.
It was 3.3%
in July. Uh core uh down a tenth of a
percent as well. So that moves us to
2.8% from 3.7%.
And corex trade is up 3/10en of 8%.
That's half of what it was last month uh
on a month-over-month basis and puts us
at 2.8% 8% for the uh year. So that was
as it was the last month. So at this
point it looks like some of the special
factors that hit last month and we'll
look into this uh didn't quite hit. Uh
most of this was a a decline. The August
decrease they say was a decline in final
demand services down 2/10en of a
percent. Final demand services was up
significantly last month. Final demand
goods did rise a tenth of a percent,
maybe a little bit less than people
anticipated because of tariffs, but
we'll have to uh dig into all of that in
just a second.
>> Yeah, Mike, take your time. I'll run
through the price action just briefly.
Pretty obvious move off the back of a
downside surprise on PPI. Bid into the
front end of the curve. Yields down by
three basis points on a 2-year 353.
Pushed that through foreign exchange. A
weaker dollar as you might expect.
Elsewhere, if you're looking at the
equity market, a lift on the S&P 500
this morning by about a half of 1% on
the S&P. So, session highs here.
Likewise on the Russell, the Russell
2000, a bounce here higher also by 0.5.
We often say this off the back of a data
point here in America that the first
move isn't always the right move and
we'll see if this sticks as we go
through the details, but the initial
take is obviously going to be this
allows the Federal Reserve to focus a
little bit more on the weakness in the
labor market and consider more rate
cuts. Yeah, the takeaway from markets is
a 25 basis point rate cut is baked in.
That's not the question. The question is
how much would is there an argument for
a 50 basis point rate cut. Right now
there's 27 basis points of uh cuts
getting priced in for next week. That to
me is the key question if this was going
to be the barrier to hold them back from
going big. Well, it doesn't seem to be
that much of a barrier. We'll wait to
see what we get from CPI, but the first
read seems to be that is not on the
table.
>> Mike McKe, details matter. What do you
see on a second look? Well, we see some
declines in the things that went up a
lot. Food prices were down just a touch
this month because uh last month we saw
a rise in fruits and vegetables of
38.9%.
38.9% but in August they were down by
15.1%.
So there's some good news there. uh
final demand for energy is basically
unchanged down 4/10en of 8% as uh
electric power went down uh by 5.9%.
So we're seeing some uh actually uh that
is natural gas I'm sorry went down by
5.9%. So we are seeing some backing off
of some of the things that went up
during the month of July that were kind
of unusual. Uh the one thing I'm looking
for here is uh consumer uh the portfolio
management uh issue. Uh we were up 5.8%
in July, 2% this month. So it's still
inflation coming from portfolio
management, but not as much as it was
the month before.
>> Mike McKe, thank you sir. Stay close.
We'll come back to you in about 5
minutes time. Just got a provocative
message from a Bloomberg terminal
subscriber. 75 is the new 50. Joking of
course, but this will be a conversation
in the coming week.
>> Joking, but not. I mean, essentially at
this point, 50 seems less of a reach
when you start talking about the
revisions and then not necessarily
seeing inflationary pressure. Early
days, let's wait till we get CPI because
the connection between producer prices
and what consumers are paying don't
always correlate to the same kind of
degree that people expect.
>> Joining us around the table, Seth
Carpenter of Morgan Stanley. Seth, good
morning. It's good to see you.
>> Good to be here. Thank you. I want to
give you some time before we get into
this data point to flesh out how you
view the world right now because I've
been following your research and
certainly you and the team consider what
took place on April 2nd and the months
after that not as an event but as a
process and we've got to wait to let
this play out in the coming months. Just
flesh that out for us how you're
thinking about the world with regards to
tariffs and a pass through to end
inflation. Yeah. No, I think that's a
key question and I do get the sense
talking to lots of investors around the
world that people feel like we've seen
in seen tariffs, we've seen sort of how
high they could go, we've seen a
retracement, we get it, now let's move
on and look at what's next. And I don't
not sure we can quite move that quickly.
Uh evidence we have from 2018 to 2019,
evidence we have now this round is that
it takes three four months before you
really start to see the effect of the
tariffs show through to consumer prices.
Uh the last two CPI prints in fact we
were able to get uh evidence that in at
least the core consumer goods components
where we expect to see it you are
starting to see an initial pickup. It's
not crazy. It's not the inflation that
we saw a few years ago, but it's it's
moving up for sure. I think the tricky
part here is going to be the tariffs
were much broader than what we saw in
2018. Uh so trade diversion is going to
be harder. On the other hand, there's a
lot more negotiation back and forth. So
how many how many industries are going
to be gaming? Absorb it for now, pass it
on later. And I think that uncertainty
is is is critical. I think we still have
a lot of additional inflation from
tariffs in front of us. And then what we
can't forget as well is that tariffs
hurt economic growth as well. In 2018,
the evidence was six, seven, eight, nine
months of a lag. We're just coming up on
that uh in the fourth quarter and then
into next year. Uh take the imports from
China. Twothirds of what we import from
China are either capital goods or
intermediate goods that go into
manufacturing in the US. So the tariffs
are attacks on domestic capex and
attacks on domestic manufacturing. The
tax provision helped on the capex side
of things to some degree. tariffs are
going in the opposite direction. Where's
the net? How are things going to work
out? I think these are the reasons why
no one should feel like they have the
whole picture already clear in their
head.
>> Yeah. Well, what you just described
sounds a lot like stagflation, which no
one should feel too happy about. It's
always kind of the disaster or at least
stagflation light as some people have
been describing it as. Do you disagree
with Fed chair Jay Powell who said that
any kind of inflationary pressure from
tariffs will be a one-time price
adjustment? And that is reason why the
central bank seems to be placing a
greater emphasis on the slowdown that
you're talking about or as we saw
yesterday some of the revisions and just
the labor market lack of momentum that
we've seen.
>> Well, I think as a baseline forecast and
we have to make our baseline forecast.
The answer to that is yeah, the most
likely outcome is that tariffs will lead
to a one-time increase in the price
level which means that the inflationary
effect, the percentage change in in
prices will be temporary. I think that's
a really great place to start a
forecast. That's where our forecast is.
Uh that's not though the only game that
the Fed has to play. They also have to
ask well what if we are wrong about our
forecast? What if things turn out
differently than our baseline? Uh and in
particular the last time we saw tariffs
and it was temporary. We had the biggest
problem for the Fed was too low
inflation, not too high inflation. Here
we are over four years into inflation
being above the Fed's target for a long
time. Businesses are kind of getting
used to inflation being high. Consumers
might be getting used to inflation being
high. They might be getting sick of it,
but they also might put less effort into
thinking, "Oh my god, do I have to go
look somewhere else for an additional
lower price because now everything's
just more expensive." So I think there's
a risk that the inflationary impulse is
longer this time gets more embedded. And
let's not forget in the services
component of things, we have now labor
restriction going on because of
immigration. We talked about the
revisions to the labor market.
Job creation was less than people
thought. Job creation has come down a
great deal. the unemployment rate 4.3%.
I'm old enough to remember when 4.3% was
actually pretty good and it's about
unchanged. It's only up a little bit
from a year ago. What that to me says is
that the labor supply side of things is
also come down a lot. And so then the
question becomes how do the services
industry, especially the ones who might
find themselves constrained for labor,
how does that show through in prices?
>> So that brings us to the data that we
get today which shows that inflation
really isn't as big of a concern as some
people expected when it comes to
producer prices. We'll see what CPI has
to say. Some people are calling for the
Fed to cut in a more significant way
next week, maybe even 50 basis points.
Do you think that if they were to do so
or even 75 basis points, let's cater to
that Bloomberg subscriber. Do you think
that that would actually ignite the risk
of inflation over the medium term or do
you think that that would be
appropriate?
>> Um, so I think the risk is that it would
be premature to cut 75 basis points for
sure and and and even 50 basis points. I
don't know from my judgment that it
balances the risk between slow growth
and and inflation. Now, news flash, I am
not the chair of the Fed, so my opinion
is much less important.
>> Yeah, I hear that you could be in the
running.
>> Um, so I I I the way I think about it is
they've got a dual mandate. Full
employment, maximum sustainable
employment, i.e., how close is the
unemployment rate to what they perceive
to be full employment, which they've
told us is 4.2%. and stable prices,
which they've defined as 2% inflation.
Inflation's above target. Inflation's
rising. It's not skyrocketing, but it's
going up. Tomorrow's CPI is going to be
really important for the consumer goods
side of things. Um, so where is that
balance of risks? I think that's really
the question. What Chair Powell told us
at Jackson Hole was he changed his mind
a bit and said, "You know what? Now
we're going to lean more on the risk of
employment getting weaker and accept a
little bit more risk on inflation going
higher." At the prior FOMC press
conference though, he kind of had said,
"Let's look at the unemployment rate."
You know, you could imagine payroll is
coming down a lot. As long as the
unemployment rate is stable, that's what
full employment, maximum sustainable
employment is really about. So there has
been a little bit of a change in that
risk adjustment. Uh I can't there's
there's no black and white. He's clearly
wrong. He's clearly right. This is a
very very difficult situation for the
Fed. Their two variables that they have
mandates for are kind of going in
opposite directions. That is the most
difficult situation for a central
banker.
>> Well, he went full Waller basically at
Jackson Hall. But to John's point all
morning, if they had had this
information in terms of actually where
the economy was, the labor market was,
do you think they should have been
cutting? Would they have been cutting
sooner?
>> I mean, I think there's there's clearly
the argument that they might have been
cutting sooner given where Powell is
now, uh, given his remarks at Jackson
Hole. Uh, given his remarks though at
the July press conference that the
unemployment rate, which is saying how
is agg labor demand doing relative to
labor supply, it's much less obvious
that they're anywhere near as far behind
the curve as you would infer just from a
read on the non-farm payroll sprint. So
this is an extraordinarily difficult,
nuanced, tricky situation. It is the
time where it's both great to be an
economist because we get to go into the
details and it's terrible to be an
economist cuz nobody wants to hear it.
Well, actually the details here matter a
lot.
>> Didn't we endorse you for a seat on the
Federal Reserve two years ago did that
on this program before? That's not new.
That doesn't feel new.
>> It's so serious.
>> Mike McKe is still with us. Mike, you've
got more. I know. What have you got?
Well, I've been looking at some of the
categories here and as I mentioned,
vegetables were a big decliner, but we
also saw wholesaling of machinery down
5.2% and I know Seth was just talking
about that. Air travel though up 1%. One
of those categories that does feed in to
the CPI and to the PCE numbers. Also,
we're seeing some uh changes in uh the
as I mentioned portfolio management down
uh a little bit uh compared to uh what
it was up just 2% compared to 5.8%.
In general, what we're seeing is durable
goods rising some though. Electronic
equipment up 5.1%. So, there are some
tariff effects and we'll keep uh looking
for that throughout the day and I'm sure
uh Seth and his staff will be as well.
>> No doubt, Mike. Thank you, sir. Michael
McKe there breaking down the PPI data.
If you are just joining us, welcome to
the program. Downside surprise on PPI
about 12 minutes ago unleashing a lift
in the equity market. A move in bonds
too yields down to the front end as we
start to talk more about this
conversation that will take place this
time next week at the Federal Reserve.
And I think it does open the door just a
little bit more to a conversation about
25 versus 50 at next week's meeting.
>> Well, it certainly is in terms of the
market pricing, but I keep thinking
about what Seth Carpenter said, which is
no one wants to hear. Well, if you look
at this, you take a look at this. But
but honestly, that's actually what I'm
looking right now at in terms of oil
prices going down. Some vegetable prices
going down, but if you buy a new phone,
say, although not an Apple phone because
evidently the prices didn't go up too
much, but certain electronics, the
prices are going up pretty
significantly. It's such a mly and
confusing picture that to draw
conclusions is a fool's errand.
>> Everyone wants to have an opinion. Just
think you've got to stay super
open-minded. And if I've got one opinion
about the situation, I'm kind of with
Seth said this for a while. Don't view
what's taken place this year as a
one-off event. View it as the start of a
process. And I think that allows you to
stay open-minded about what's about to
happen over the next several months. I
don't know what will happen, but you
have to view it as a process and not a
one-off event.
>> And this is what a lot of corporate
executives are doing right now. They're
saying, "Let's wait. Let's not be first
movers when it comes to jacking up
prices by 10%. We'll wait but slowly
over the next one month, two months,
three months as the inventories have to
be replenished. Then we will raise
prices and that's when you're going to
see it trickle out in that process. So
on the flip side, yes, but oil prices
are lower.
>> Seth, it's good to see you.
>> Great to be here.
>> Thanks for dropping by. I appreciate it.
We like it where you are at Morgan
Stanley. Ted Pic does too. Seth
Carpenter there of Morgan Stanley. Ted,
I know you're watching around this time,
so good morning. Equity futures on the
S&P up by 0.5%. Let's get you an update
on stories worldwide with your Bloomberg
brief. Here's Vonnie Quinn. Hey Vonnie.
>> Hey John. Thank you. Well, just
recapping the data. US wholesale
inflation declining in August for the
first time in four months. The headline
producer price index falling.1%
from a month earlier. It did rise 2.6%
from the year before. Tomorrow, we'll
get consumer price data. Economists
expect core CPI to rise as tariffs
impact prices.
The Supreme Court has fasttracked a
challenge to President Donald Trump's
tariffs. The court agreed to hear cases
bought by businesses hurt by the levies.
That hearing scheduled for the first
week of November. The tariffs remain in
place for now, but a decision striking
them down could force the US to refund
tens of billions of dollars.
Crypto firm Gemini has increased the
potential size of its IPO to $433.3
million, pricing shares at 24 to $26 a
piece. At the top of the elevated IPO
range, Gemini would have a market value
of $3.1 billion. The firm was founded in
2014 by Cameron and Tyler Winklevoss.
And that is your Bloomberg brief. John
>> Evony, thank you. Appreciate it. Coming
up on the program, we'll catch up with
Lisa Hornby of Schroers as we break down
the latest inflation data. Plus, we'll
touch base with you to get your morning
movers as Chewy falls in the pre-market
by more than 8%. From New York, you're
watching Bloomberg TV.
[Music]
I believe the Fed should have a single
mandate, which is price stability. The
biggest, most punishing tax on the
American people, our citizens, is
inflation. And inflation's caused by too
much money chasing too few goods. I
believe we need fewer mandates and I
think we need that monetary policy
focused on price stability. So the good
news this morning for the congressman
from Arkansas is that inflation came in
below expectations. A downside surprise
on PPI. A rally in equities and in
bonds. Equity futures up this morning by
about a half of 1% on the S&P 500, on
the NASDAQ 100 and on the Russell 2000.
With about 40 minutes to go until the
opening bout, let's get you some morning
movers. Let's cross over to Yahihara
Arnand for more. Hey yhara.
>> Hi John. Oracle blew it out of the water
when it comes to its growth projections,
stunning Wall Street and helping to lift
other AI infrastructure plays. That is
because its booked revenue jumped $359%
compared to a year ago, jumping to $455
billion in the latest quarter thanks to
massive cloud deals with the likes of
Open AI and Nvidia, which is why you are
seeing those shares rallying 3 and a4%.
Oracle also said that its cloud
infrastructure unit will rake in $18
billion this year and that is expected
to grow to $144 billion by the end of
this decade. And that is why you're
seeing core reef shares up more than 10%
because of that strength. Next up, we
have regional lender Fifth Third Bank
Corp. Shares are down nearly 2% after
the bank said it uncovered allegedly
fraudulent activity by one of its
commercial borrowers, forcing it to
write off up to $200 million. And
sources tell us here at Bloomberg that
JP Morgan and Barkclays are also
exposed, but because those are bigger
banks, they are not getting the same
level of scrutiny as this regional
lender. And we end on Chewy. You
mentioned this one. Shares are down
nearly 10% now after its Q2 results
failed to meet high hopes. Its profit
fell in the second quarter and it did
post a sales beat, but it was only
slight. So it was just not enough to
keep up with the hype after shares had
run up 20% from an August low through
yesterday and a number of analysts had
raised their price targets. John
>> down almost 10%. Yahara, thank you.
Appreciate it. Three of the stock movers
to watch going into the opening bell.
Heading into the opening bell, this is
the trading diary at 10 a.m. Eastern
time, the Senate Banking Panel votes on
Fed nominee Steven Meyer. Later on, this
takes on additional importance. 11:30
Eastern time, the president receives his
intelligence briefing. Then at 700 p.m.
Eastern time, the president hosts a
dinner in the Rose Garden or the Rose
Garden Club now. Is that what it's
called?
>> Rose Garden Club. Yeah, Rose Garden.
It's basically like Mara Lago,
>> but not in Washington. I get it. All
right. Thursday, CPI data, plus another
another round of jobless claims and an
ECB rate decision. And on Friday, you
consumer sentiment data. Let's stick
with the data. This morning's PPI
inflation print coming in cooler than
expected ahead of CPI tomorrow. Lisa
Hornby of Schroers joins us now for
more. Lisa, good morning. Hi. Does that
set us up for 50 next week?
>> I think the market's definitely going to
make a push to try and price that in.
Um, just looking at warp a couple
seconds ago, I think, you know, pricing
looks like about 12% probability of of
50 basis point hike at this point. And I
think the market's probably waiting on
CPI tomorrow to see if it confirms what
PPI already did. Our base case is still
25, but I can see that going either way.
>> So, if CPI comes in lighter tomorrow,
you think the 50 basis point of a rate
cut could actually increasingly get
priced in. might be even appropriate.
>> Yes, I think it will be pre I think more
will be priced. I you know I don't think
the Fed really set us up for 50. So I
think we might see some governors you
know surreptitiously try to guide the
market a bit if they want to get if
they're they're trying to go that route
but ultimately I think the market
pressures the Fed versus the other way
around. So if we see the market making
an aggressive move to push towards 50 I
think the Fed might end up delivering
that. as a bond investor, does this make
you wary of going into longerterm
treasuries or does it actually encourage
that investment given the slowing that
we've seen in some of the labor metrics?
>> So, it's interesting. The curve is the
curve is a tough one right now. We were
biased towards steep nerves, but we
we're more neutral at this point. And
the reason for that is, you know, coming
into this last few months,
we were concerned about every the same
thing as the rest of the market, right?
fiscal instability, the Fed being
politicized, the economy looks
relatively resilient, but now we've seen
this labor market deterioration in a
more meaningful way, which means the
Fed's concerns were were warranted. Um,
so I actually think the long end could
do okay for a bit in part because the
steepener has been so consensus.
Everybody's hated the long bond for so
long. Probably nobody owns any long
bonds and that's why we've seen a 25
basis point rally in the last week and a
half. Um, and some of the other reasons
is the administration really wants lower
rates, not just in the front end. They
want lower rates in the long end, right?
They want the housing market to be
stimulated. They're talking about what
emergency measures they can do to
stimulate the market. You know, who who
says that they can't do something a
little bit more creative and actually
more explicitly target the long end in
some way? I mean, buybacks in of the
20-year things like that.
>> Are you expecting that from this
administration?
>> I wouldn't be shocked. I mean, they've
thrown us for a lot of loops, right? And
this is clearly a priority for them is
how do they unlock the housing market?
Um, you know, they could do something
maybe on the the the agency side
perhaps, but another way is reduce the
amount of long issuance in favor of the
front end. And I I don't think that
would be that controversial.
>> So, you're looking for flatteners.
>> Near-term. I think near-term we could
see a little bit of flattening. And, you
know, there's there's this slowing,
right, momentum. You know, people will
start to become concerned about a US
recession. I don't think we're headed
there, but I think that concern will
build, especially if we continue to see
weakening labor markets. And so that
should be supportive of the long.
>> What do you think yields can come down
to? Tens and 30s. What kind of numbers
are you thinking about?
>> So, we've been long duration, but we've
been reducing the magnitude of it.
>> Okay.
>> Um, so I think there's still further to
go. It's hard to pinpoint a number.
Could we get another 25 basis points?
Sure. Our our view of the economy is
that it's actually we're in a bit of a
soft patch, but we might be coming
through it in the next few months. So,
we won't see that maybe till the
springtime, but you know, we had a lot
of policy uncertainty with regards to
tariffs that probably put companies off
from hiring. But look at the amount of
capex that's being done right now. You
know, I saw a stat that the last three
quarters something like 3540% of GDP is
actually investment spending. So, I
mean, those are that has a big
multiplier effect down the road. It's
not immediate, but I do think that
that's really important. Plus, we have
the tailwinds of fiscal policy that are
still influencing the market. Plus, we
have supportive monetary policy. It's
hard to see where we get
>> near-term near-term slowdown risk.
Medium-term you see reaceleration risk.
>> Yes. Yeah.
>> Okay. All right. The trade of the moment
in fixed income, as you know, is the
position for a steepener. I'm not sure
how many positions there are out there
for a flattener in the near term at
least,
>> which maybe is one reason why it's
important as we were just sort of
hearing. What I find fascinating is we
started the show with Peter Shear
talking about operation twist with the
Fed potentially using its balance sheet
at the same time that the Treasury works
around issuance. And we finished the
show with Lisa Hornby of Schroers
talking about similar types of
creativity to create a flatter yield
curve, not a steeper yield curve.
>> Yields are lower. That's the good news
this morning. Tens are down by two basis
points, threatening to break 4%. Lisa,
appreciate your time as always.
Thoughtful as always, Lisa Hornby of
Schroeders as we count you down to CPI
tomorrow morning following a downside
surprise on PPI this morning. Coming up
tomorrow, Steve Chevron of Federated,
KBW CEO, Tom Micho, Tiffany Welding of
Pimco, and David Kelly of JP Morgan
Asset Management. Record highs coming
into Wednesday. More record highs in
store from New York City. Thank you for
choosing Bloomberg TV.
[Music]